dropping immediately. The Shardblade swished through the air above him. He landed in a crouch, using his momentum to throw himself forward, and swung at the Shardbearers side, where the Plate had cracked. He hit with a powerful blow. That piece of the Plate shattered, bits of molten metal streaking away. The Shardbearer grunted, dropping to one knee, raising a hand to his side. Szeth raised a foot to the mans side and shoved him backward with a Stormlight-enhanced kick. The heavy Shardbearer crashed into the door of the kings quarters, smashing it and falling partway into the room beyond. Szeth left him, ducking instead through the doorway to the right, following the way the king had gone. The hallway here had the same red carpet, and Stormlight lamps on the walls gave Szeth a chance to recharge the tempest within. Energy blazed within him again, and he sped up. If he could get far enough ahead, he could deal with the king, then turn back to fight off the Shardbearer. It wouldnt be easy. A Full Lashing on a doorway wouldnt stop a Shardbearer, and that Plate would let the man run supernaturally fast. Szeth glanced over his shoulder. The Shardbearer wasnt following. The man sat up in his armor, looking dazed. Szeth could just barely see him, sitting in the doorway, surrounded by broken bits of wood. Perhaps Szeth had wounded him more than hed thought. Or maybe Szeth froze. He thought of the ducked head of the man whod been rushed out, face obscured. The Shardbearer still wasnt following. He was so skilled. It was said that few men could rival Gavilar Kholins swordsmanship. Could it be? Szeth turned and dashed back, trusting his instincts. As soon as the Shardbearer saw him, he climbed to his feet with alacrity. Szeth ran faster. What was the safest place for your king? In the hands of some guards, fleeing? Or protected in a suit of Shardplate, left behind, dismissed as a bodyguard? Clever, Szeth thought as the formerly sluggish Shardbearer fell into another battle stance. Szeth attacked with renewed vigor, swinging his Blade in a flurry of strikes. The Shardbearerthe kingaggressively struck out with broad, sweeping blows. Szeth pulled away from one of these, feeling the wind of the weapon passing just inches before him. He timed his next move, then dashed forward, ducking underneath the kings follow-through. The king, expecting another strike at his side, twisted with his arm held protectively to block the hole in his Plate. That gave Szeth the room to run past him and into the kings chambers. The king spun around to follow, but Szeth ran through the lavishly furnished chamber, flinging out his hand, touching pieces of furniture he passed. He