Im going to need every man I can get, but everyone I recruit is going to be suspect. Sadeas will try to send spies into our camp. And traitors. And assassins. Elhokar thinks we wont last a week. Stormfather, Kaladin said. What are you planning? Im going to take away their games, fully expecting them to react like children losing their favored toy. These children have armies and Shardblades. Unfortunately. And this is what you want me to protect you from? Yes. No quibbling. Straightforward. There was much to respect about that. Ill augment Bridge Four to become the honor guard, Kaladin said. And train the rest as a spearman company. Those in the honor guard get paid like it. Generally, a lighteyess personal guard got triple a standard spearmans wage. Of course. And I want space to train, Kaladin said. Full right of requisition from the quartermasters. I get to set my mens schedule, and we appoint our own sergeants and squadleaders. We dont answer to any lighteyes but yourself, your sons, and the king. Dalinar raised an eyebrow. That last one is a little irregular. You want me to guard you and your family? Kaladin said. Against the other highprinces and their assassins, who might infiltrate your army and your officers? Well, I cant be in a position where any lighteyes in the camp can order me around, now can I? You have a point, Dalinar said. You realize, however, that in doing this I would essentially be giving you the same authority as a lighteyes of fourth dahn. Youd be in charge of a thousand former bridgemen. A full battalion. Yes. Dalinar thought for a moment. Very well. Consider yourself appointed to the rank of captainthats as high as I dare appoint a darkeyes. If I named you battalionlord, it would cause a whole mess of problems. Ill let it be known, however, that youre outside the chain of command. You dont order around lighteyes of lesser rank than you, and lighteyes of higher rank have no authority over you. All right, Kaladin said. But these soldiers I train, I want them assigned to patrolling, not plateau runs. I hear youve had several full battalions hunting bandits, keeping the peace in the Outer Market, that sort of thing. Thats where my men go for one year, at least. Easy enough, Dalinar said. You want time to train them before throwing