as we age. Indeed, it seems to me that aging, wisdom, and wondering are synonymous. The older we grow, the more likely we are to reject the simple answers. Unless someone gets in our way and demands they be accepted regardless. Jasnahs eyes narrowed. You wonder why I reject the devotaries. I do. Most of them seek to stop the questions. Jasnah halted. Then she briefly pulled back her glove, using the light beneath to reveal the street around her. The gemstones on her handlarger than broamsblazed like torches, red, white, and grey. Is it wise to be showing your wealth like that, Brightness? Shallan said, speaking very softly and glancing about her. No, Jasnah said. It is most certainly not. Particularly not here. You see, this street has gained a particular reputation lately. On three separate occasions during the last two months, theatergoers who chose this route to the main road were accosted by footpads. In each case, the people were murdered. Shallan felt herself grow pale. The city watch, Jasnah said, has done nothing. Taravangian has sent them several pointed reprimands, but the captain of the watch is cousin to a very influential lighteyes in the city, and Taravangian is not a terribly powerful king. Some suspect that there is more going on, that the footpads might be bribing the watch. The politics of it are irrelevant at the moment for, as you can see, no members of the watch are guarding the place, despite its reputation. Jasnah pulled her glove back on, plunging the roadway back into darkness. Shallan blinked, her eyes adjusting. How foolish, Jasnah said, would you say it is for us to come here, two undefended women wearing costly clothing and bearing riches?  Very foolish. Jasnah, can we go? Please. Whatever lesson you have in mind isnt worth this. Jasnah drew her lips into a line, then looked toward a narrow, darker alleyway off the road they were on. It was almost completely black now that Jasnah had replaced her glove. Youre at an interesting place in your life, Shallan, Jasnah said, flexing her hand. You are old enough to wonder, to ask, to reject what is presented to you simply because it was presented to you. But you also cling to the idealism of youth. You feel there must be some single, all-defining Truthand you think that once you find it, all that once confused you will suddenly make sense. I Shallan wanted to argue, but Jasnahs words were tellingly accurate. The terrible things Shallan had done, the terrible thing she had planned to do, haunted her. Was it possible to do something horrible in the name of