given empty barracks for the bridgemen and they had received medical attention from Dalinars best surgeonstheyd gotten it before the wounded lighteyed officers had. The other bridgemen, the ones who werent from Bridge Four, had accepted Kaladin immediately, without any deliberation on the matter, as their leader. Dalinar nodded. How many, do you suspect, will take my offer of a purse and freedom? A fair number of the men from other crews will. But Ill wager an even larger number wont. Bridgemen dont think of escape or freedom. They wouldnt know what to do with themselves. As for my own crew Well, I have a feeling that theyll insist on doing whatever I do. If I stay, theyll stay. If I go, theyll go. Dalinar nodded. And what will you do? I havent decided yet. I spoke to my officers. Dalinar grimaced. The ones who survived. They said that you gave orders to them, took charge like a lighteyes. My son still feels bitter about the way your conversation with him went. Even a fool could see he wasnt going to be able to get to you. As for the officers, most were in shock or run ragged. I merely nudged them. I owe you my life twice over, Dalinar said. And that of my son and my men. You paid that debt. No, Dalinar said. But Ive done what I can. He eyed Kaladin, as if sizing him up, judging him. Why did your bridge crew come for us? Why, really? Why did you give up your Shardblade? Dalinar held his eyes, then nodded. Fair enough. I have an offer for you. The king and I are about to do something very, very dangerous. Something that will upset all the warcamps. Congratulations. Dalinar smiled faintly. My honor guard has nearly been wiped out, and the men I do have are needed to augment the Kings Guard. My trust is stretched thin these days. I need someone to protect me and my family. I want you and your men for that job. You want a bunch of bridgemen as bodyguards? The elite ones as bodyguards, Dalinar said. Those in your crew, the ones you trained. I want the rest as soldiers for my army. I have heard how well your men fought. You trained them without Sadeass knowing, all while running bridges. Im curious to see what you could do with the right resources. Dalinar turned away, glancing northward. Toward Sadeass camp. My army is depleted.