things they did. The Immortal Words. The what? Teft rolled his sphere between his fingers again, holding it up and staring into its depths. Life before death. Strength before weakness. Journey before destination. That was their motto, and was the First Ideal of the Immortal Words. There were four others. Kaladin raised an eyebrow. Which were? I dont actually know, Teft said. But the Immortal Wordsthese Ideals guided everything they did. The four later Ideals were said to be different for every order of Radiants. But the First Ideal was the same for each of the ten: Life before death, strength before weakness, journey before destination. He hesitated. Or so I was told. Yes, well, that seems a little obvious to me, Kaladin said. Life comes before death. Just like day comes before night, or one comes before two. Obvious. Youre not taking this seriously. Maybe thats why the Stormlight refuses you. Kaladin stood and stretched. Im sorry, Teft. Im just tired. Life before death, Teft said, wagging a finger at Kaladin. The Radiant seeks to defend life, always. He never kills unnecessarily, and never risks his own life for frivolous reasons. Living is harder than dying. The Radiants duty is to live. Strength before weakness. All men are weak at some time in their lives. The Radiant protects those who are weak, and uses his strength for others. Strength does not make one capable of rule; it makes one capable of service. Teft picked up spheres, putting them in his pouch. He held the last one for a second, then tucked it away too. Journey before destination. There are always several ways to achieve a goal. Failure is preferable to winning through unjust means. Protecting ten innocents is not worth killing one. In the end, all men die. How you lived will be far more important to the Almighty than what you accomplished. The Almighty? So the knights were tied to religion? Isnt everything? There was some old king who came up with all this. Had his wife write it in a book or something. My mother read it. The Radiants based the Ideals on what was written there. Kaladin shrugged, moving over to begin sorting through the pile of bridgemens leather vests. Ostensibly, he and Teft were here checking those over for tears or broken straps. After a few moments, Teft joined him. Do you actually believe that? Kaladin asked, lifting up a vest, tugging on