Especially those who hated him. Well, were going to show Gaz, and Sadeas, Hashal, and any other sodden fool who cares to watch, what he taught me. Now go to work and stop complaining ! Bridge Four stared at him with wide, ashamed eyes, then burst into motion. Teft organized a triage unit, sending some men to search for other wounded bridgemen and others to gather rockbud bark for a fire. Lopen and Dabbid rushed off to fetch their litter. Kaladin knelt down and felt at the wounded mans leg, checking to see how quickly the blood leaked, and determined that he wouldnt need to cauterize. He broke the shaft and wiped the wound with some conicshell mucus for numbing. Then he pulled the wood free, eliciting a grunt, and used his personal set of bandages to wrap the wound. Hold this with your hands, Kaladin instructed. And dont walk on it. Ill check on you before we march back to camp. How the man said. He didnt have even a hint of an accent. Kaladin had expected him to be Azish because of the dark skin. How will I get back if I cant walk on the leg? We will carry you, Kaladin said. The man looked up, obviously shocked. I Tears formed in his eyes. Thank you. Kaladin nodded curtly, turning as Rock and Moash brought over another wounded man. Teft had a fire growing; it smelled of pungent wet rockbud. The new man had hit his head and had a long gash in his arm. Kaladin held out a hand for his thread. Kaladin, lad, Teft said with a soft voice, handing him the thread and kneeling. Now, dont mark this as complaining, because it aint. But how many men can we really carry back with us? Weve done three before, Kaladin said. Lashed to the top of the bridge. Ill bet we could fit three more and carry another in the water litter. And if we have more than seven? If we bandage them right, some might be able to walk. And if there are still more? Storm it, Teft, Kaladin said, beginning to sew. Then we bring the ones we can and haul the bridge back out again to fetch those we left behind. Well bring Gaz with us if the soldiers worry that well run away. Teft was silent, and Kaladin steeled himself for incredulity. Instead, however, the grizzled soldier smiled. He actually seemed a little watery-eyed. Keleks breath. Its true. I never thought Kaladin frowned, looking up at Teft and holding a hand to the wound to