Had the Parshendi known what they were consigning him to by tossing his Oathstone away as they fled Kholinar that night? Szeth had been required to recover it, then stand there beside the road, wondering if he would be discovered and executed hoping hed be discovered and executeduntil a passing merchant had cared enough to inquire. By then, Szeth had stood only in a loincloth. His honor had forced him to discard the white clothing, as it would have made him easier to recognize. He had to preserve himself so that he could suffer. After a short explanation that left out incriminating details, Szeth had found himself riding in the back of the merchants cart. The merchanta man named Avadohad been clever enough to realize that in the wake of the kings death, foreigners might be treated poorly. Hed made his way to Jah Keved, never knowing that he harbored Gavilars murderer as his serving man. The Alethi didnt search for him. They assumed that he, the infamous Assassin in White, had retreated with the Parshendi. They probably expected to discover him in the middle of the Shattered Plains. The miners eventually tired of Tooks increasingly slurred stories. They bid him farewell, ignoring his broad hints that another cup of beer would prompt him to tell his greatest tale: that of the time when hed seen the Nightwatcher herself and stolen a sphere that glowed black at night. That tale always discomforted Szeth, as it reminded him of the strange black sphere Gavilar had given him. Hed hidden that carefully in Jah Keved. He didnt know what it was, but he didnt want to risk a master taking it from him. When nobody offered Took another drink, he reluctantly stumbled from his chair and waved Szeth to follow him from the tavern. The street was dark outside. This town, Ironsway, had a proper town square, several hundred homes, and three different taverns. That made it practically a metropolis for Bavland the small, mostly-ignored stretch of land just south of the Horneater Peaks. The area was technically part of Jah Keved, but even its highprince tended to stay away from it. Szeth followed his master through the streets toward the poorer district. Took was too cheap to pay for a room in the nice, or even modest, areas of a town. Szeth looked over his shoulder, wishing that the Second Sisterknown as Nomon to these Easternershad risen to give a little more light. Took stumbled drunkenly, then fell over in the street. Szeth sighed. It would not be the first night he carried his master home to his bed. He knelt to lift Took. He froze. A warm liquid was pooling beneath his masters body. Only then did he notice the knife in Tooks neck. Szeth instantly came alert as a group of footpads slipped out of the alleyway.