His experience told him that men who could not fight were at a severe disadvantage in this world of war and storms. Perhaps sneaking out would have been the better option, but he knew little of stealth. Besides, if they sneaked away, Sadeas would send troops after them. Trouble would track them down. Whatever their path, the bridgemen would have to kill to remain free. He squeezed his eyes shut, remembering one of his escape attempts, when hed kept his fellow slaves free for an entire week, hiding in the wilderness. Theyd finally been caught by their masters hunters. That was when hed lost Nalma. None of that has to do with saving them here and now, Kaladin told himself. I need these spheres. Sigzil was still talking about the Emuli. To them, the Worldsinger said, the need to strike a man personally is crass. They wage war in the opposite way from you Alethi. The sword is not a weapon for a leader. A halberd is better, then a spear, and best of all a bow and arrow. Kaladin pulled another handful of spheresskychipsfrom a soldiers pocket. They were stuck to an aged hunk of sows cheese, fragrant and moldy. He grimaced, picking the spheres out and washing them in a puddle. Spears, used by lighteyes? Drehy said. Thats ridiculous. Why? Sigzil said, sounding offended. I find the Emuli way to be interesting. In some countries, it is seen as displeasing to fight at all. To the Shin, for instance, if you must fight a man, then you have already failed. Killing is, at best, a brutish way of solving problems. Youre not going be like Rock and refuse to fight, are you? Skar asked, shooting a barely-veiled glare at the Horneater. Rock sniffed and turned his back on the shorter man, kneeling down to shove boots into a large sack. No, Sigzil said. I think we can all agree that other methods have failed. Perhaps if my master knew I still livedbut no. That is foolish. Yes, I will fight. And if I have to, the spear seems a favorable weapon, though I honestly would prefer to put more distance between myself and my enemies. Kaladin frowned. You mean with a bow? Sigzil nodded. Among my people, the bow is a noble weapon. Do you know how to use one? Alas, no, Sigzil said. I would have mentioned it before now if I had such proficiency. Kaladin stood up, opening the pouch and depositing the spheres in with the others. Were there any bows among the bodies? The men glanced at each other, several of them shaking heads. Storm it , Kaladin thought. The seed of an idea had begun to sprout in his mind, but that killed it.