was a political creature. Intrigue made her blossom like a rockbud in calm wet air. However, unlike Jasnah, Navani was hard to trust. At least with Jasnah one knew where one stoodonce again, Dalinar found himself wishing shed put aside her projects and return to the Shattered Plains. Im not speaking ill of my son, Dalinar, Navani said. We both know I am as loyal to him as you are. But I like to know what Im working with, and that requires a definition. He is seen as weak, and I intend to see him protected. Despite himself, if necessary. Then we work for the same goals. But if protecting him was the second reason you returned, what was the third? She smiled a violet-eyed, red-lipped smile at him. A meaningful smile. Blood of my ancestors Dalinar thought. Stormwinds, but shes beautiful. Beautiful and deadly. It seemed a particular irony to him that his wifes face had been erased from his mind, and yet he could remember in complete and intricate detail the months this woman had spent toying with him and Gavilar. Shed played them off one another, fanning their desire before finally choosing the elder son. Theyd all known the entire time that she would choose Gavilar. It had hurt anyway. We need to talk sometime in private, Navani said. I want to hear your opinion on some of the things being said in camp. That probably meant the rumors about him. IIm very busy. She rolled her eyes. Im sure you are. Were meeting anyway, once Ive had time to settle here and put out feelers. How about one week from today? Ill come read to you from that book of my husbands, and afterward we can chat. Well do it in a public place. All right? He sighed. Very well. But Highprinces and lighteyes, Elhokars suddenly proclaimed. Dalinar and Navani turned toward the end of the table, where the king stood wearing his uniform complete with royal cape and crown. He raised a hand toward the island. The people hushed, and soon the only sound was that of the water burbling through the streams. Im sure many of you have heard the rumors regarding the attempt on my life during the hunt three days ago, Elhokar announced. When my saddle girth was cut. Dalinar glanced at Navani. She raised her freehand toward him and rocked it back and forth, indicating that she didnt find the rumors to be persuasive. She knew about the rumors, of course. Give Navani five minutes in a city and shed know anything and everything of significance being gossiped about.