There have been two between her and Janala, Father, Adolin noted. You really need to pay more attention. Almighty help any man who tries to keep track of your tangled courtships, son. The most recent was Rilla, Renarin said. Dalinar frowned. And you two Had some problems yesterday, Adolin said. He coughed, determined to change the subject. Anyway, dont you find it odd that the king would insist on coming to hunt the chasmfiend himself? Not particularly. It isnt often that a full-sized one makes its way out here, and the king rarely gets to go on plateau runs. This is a way for him to fight. But hes so paranoid! Why does he now want to go and hunt, exposing himself on the Plains? Dalinar looked toward the kings awning. I know he seems odd, son. But the king is more complex a man than many give him credit for being. He worries that his subjects see him as a coward because of how much he fears assassins, and so he finds ways to prove his courage. Foolish ways, sometimesbut hes not the first man Ive known who will face battle without fear, yet cower in terror about knives in the shadows. The hallmark of insecurity is bravado. The king is learning to lead. He needs this hunt. He needs to prove to himself, and to others, that hes still strong and worthy to command a kingdom at war. Thats why I encouraged him. A successful hunt, under controlled circumstances, could bolster his reputation and his confidence. Adolin slowly closed his mouth, his fathers words cutting down his complaints. Strange, how much the kings actions made sense when explained that way. Adolin looked up at his father. How can the others whisper that hes a coward? Cant they see his wisdom? Yes, Dalinar said, eyes growing distant. Your nephew is a better man than many think him, and a stronger king. At least he could be. I just have to figure out how to persuade him to leave the Shattered Plains. Adolin started.  What?  I didnt understand at first, Dalinar continued. Unite them. Im supposed to unite them. But arent they already united? We fight together here on the Shattered Plains. We have a common enemy in the Parshendi. Im beginning to see that were united only in name. The highprinces give lip service to Elhokar, but this warthis siegeis a game to them. A competition against one another. We cant unite them here. We need to return to Alethkar and stabilize our homeland, learn how to work together as one nation. The Shattered Plains divide us. The others worry too much about winning wealth and prestige.