there. The lighteyed woman assigned most of the slaves to forest duty. A half- dozen of the more spindly ones were sent to work the mess halls, despite what shed said before. Those ten, the noblewoman said, raising her rod to point at Kaladin and the others from his wagon. Take them to the bridge crews. Tell Lamaril and Gaz that the tall one is to be given special treatment. The soldiers laughed, and one began shoving Kaladins group along the pathway. Kaladin endured it; these men had no reason to be gentle, and he wouldnt give them a reason to be rougher. If there was a group citizen soldiers hated more than mercenaries, it was deserters. As he walked, he couldnt help noticing the banner flying above the camp. It bore the same symbol emblazoned on the soldiers uniform coats: a yellow glyphpair in the shape of a tower and a hammer on a field of deep green. That was the banner of Highprince Sadeas, ultimate ruler of Kaladins own home district. Was it irony or fate that had landed Kaladin here? Soldiers lounged idly, even those who appeared to be on duty, and the camp streets were littered with refuse. Camp followers were plentiful: whores, worker women, coopers, chandlers, and wranglers. There were even children running through the streets of what was half city, half warcamp. There were also parshmen. Carrying water, working on trenches, lifting sacks. That surprised him. Werent they fighting parshmen? Werent they worried that these would rise up? Apparently not. The parshmen here worked with the same docility as the ones back in Hearthstone. Perhaps it made sense. Alethi had fought against Alethi back in his armies at home, so why shouldnt there be parshmen on both sides of this conflict? The soldiers took Kaladin all the way around to the northeastern quarter of the camp, a hike that took some time. Though the Soulcast stone barracks each looked exactly the same, the rim of the camp was broken distinctively, like ragged mountains. Old habits made him memorize the route. Here, the towering circular wall had been worn away by countless highstorms, giving a clear view eastward. That open patch of ground would make a good staging area for an army to gather on before marching down the incline to the Shattered Plains themselves. The northern edge of the field contained a subcamp filled with several dozen barracks, and at their center a lumberyard filled with carpenters. They were breaking down some of the stout trees Kaladin had seen on the plains outside: stripping off their stringy bark, sawing them into planks. Another group of carpenters assembled the planks into large contraptions. Were to be woodworkers? Kaladin asked.