willing to part with the connections she offers. Him? Kaladin asked, stunned. Roshone himself was marrying her? Others in the crowd had begun speaking as they noticed the prayer. Lighteyes marry much younger women all the time, Kaladins mother said. For them, marriages are often about securing house loyalty.  Him?  Kaladin asked again, incredulous, stepping forward. We have to stop it. We have to Kaladin, his father said sharply. But It is their affair, not ours. Kaladin fell silent, feeling the larger raindrops hit his head, the smaller ones blowing by as mist. The water ran through the square and pooled in depressions. Near Kaladin, a rainspren sprang up, forming as if out of the water. It stared upward, unblinking. Roshone leaned on his cane and nodded to Natir, his steward. The man was accompanied by his wife, a stern-looking woman named Alaxia. Natir clapped his slender hands to quiet the crowd, and soon the only sound was that of the soft rain. Brightlord Amaram, Roshone said, nodding to the lighteyed man in the uniform, is absendiar highmarshal of our princedom. He is in command of defending our borders while the king and Brightlord Sadeas are away. Kaladin nodded. Everyone knew of Amaram. He was far more important than most military men who passed through Hearthstone. Amaram stepped forward to speak. You have a fine town here, Amaram said to the gathered darkeyes. He had a strong, deep voice. Thank you for hosting me. Kaladin frowned, glancing at the other townspeople. They seemed as confused as he by the statement. Normally, Amaram said, I would leave this task to one of my subordinate officers. But as I was visiting with my cousin, I decided to come down in person. It is not so onerous a task that I need delegate it. Excuse me, Brightlord, said Callins, one of the farmers. But what duty is that? Why, recruitment, good farmer, Amaram said, nodding to Alaxia, who stepped forward with a sheet of paper strapped to a board. The king took most of our armies with him on his quest to fulfill the Vengeance Pact. My forces are undermanned, and it has become necessary to recruit young men from each town or village we pass. I do this with volunteers whenever possible. The townspeople fell still. Boys talked of running off to the army, but few of