From her expression, Adolin could tell that even she understood what the lack of a third horn meant. Once again, Dalinar Kholin had chosen not to fight. Come on, Adolin said, turning and moving in another direction, practically towing Janala along by her elbow. Theres something else I want to check into. Dalinar stood with hands clasped behind his back, looking out over the Shattered Plains. He was on one of the lower terraces outside Elhokars elevated palace the king didnt reside in one of the ten warcamps, but in a small compound elevated along a hillside nearby. Dalinars climb to the palace had been interrupted by the horns. He stood long enough see Sadeass army gathering inside his camp. Dalinar could have sent a soldier to prepare his own men. He was close enough. Brightlord? a voice asked from the side. Do you wish to continue? You protect him your way, Sadeas, Dalinar thought. Ill protect him my way. Yes, Teshav, he said, turning to continue walking up the switchbacks. Teshav joined him. She had streaks of blond in her otherwise black Alethi hair, which she wore up in an intricate crossing weave. She had violet eyes, and her pinched face bore a concerned expression. That was normal; she always seemed to need something to worry about. Teshav and her attendant scribe were both wives of his officers. Dalinar trusted them. Mostly. It was hard to trust anyone completely. Stop it, he thought. Youre starting to sound as paranoid as the king. Regardless, hed be very glad for Jasnahs return. If she ever decided to return. Some of his higher officers hinted to him that he should marry again, if only to have a woman who could be his primary scribe. They thought he rejected their suggestions because of love for his first wife. They didnt know that she was gone, vanished from his mind, a blank patch of fog in his memory. Though, in a way, his officers were right. He hesitated to remarry because he hated the idea of replacing her. Hed had everything of his wife taken from him. All that remained was the hole, and filling it to gain a scribe seemed callous. Dalinar continued on his way. Other than the two women, he was attended by Renarin and three members of the Cobalt Guard. The latter wore deep blue felt caps and cloaks over silvery breastplates and deep blue trousers. They were lighteyes of low rank, able to carry swords for close fighting.