want it to be a land of lawlessness. Yes, Brightlord, Teshav said, sounding hesitant. You realize that means youve committed two entire battalions to patrolling? Yes, Dalinar said. He had asked for help from the other highprinces. Their reactions had ranged from shock to mirth. None had given him any soldiers. That is added to the battalion you assigned to peacekeeping in the areas between warcamps and the exterior merchant markets, Teshav added. In total, thats over a quarter of your forces here, Brightlord. The orders stand, Teshav. he said. See to it. But first, I have more to discuss with you regarding the ledgers. Go on ahead to the ledger room and wait for us there. She nodded respect. Of course, Brightlord. She withdrew with her ward. Renarin stepped up to Dalinar. She wasnt pleased about that, Father. She wishes her husband to be fighting, Dalinar said. They all hope that Ill win another Shardblade out there, then give it to them. The Parshendi had Shards. Not many, but even a single one was surprising. Nobody had an explanation for where theyd gotten them. Dalinar had won a Parshendi Shardblade and Plate during his first year here. Hed given both to Elhokar to award to a warrior he felt would be the most useful to Alethkar and the war effort. Dalinar turned and entered the palace proper. The guards at the doorway saluted him and Renarin. The young man kept his eyes forward, staring at nothing. Some people thought him emotionless, but Dalinar knew he was just preoccupied. Ive been meaning to speak with you, son, Dalinar said. About the hunt last week. Renarins eyes flickered downward in shame, the edges of his mouth pulling back in a grimace. Yes, he did have emotions. He just didnt show them as often as others. You realize that you shouldnt have rushed into battle as you did, Dalinar said sternly. That chasmfiend could have killed you. What would you have done, Father, if it had been me in danger? I dont fault your bravery; I fault your wisdom. What if youd had one of your fits? Then perhaps the monster would have swept me off the plateau, Renarin said bitterly, and I would no longer be such a useless drain on everyones time. Dont say such things! Not even in jest. Was it jest? Father, I cant fight. Fighting is not the only thing of value a man can do. The ardents were