and spanned a particularly shallow chasm. Only about forty feet deep, rather than the usual hundred or more. She nodded, then zipped away, leading them there. Kaladin and Lopen followed. Teft had orders to lead the others back and meet Kaladin at the base of the ladder, but Kaladin and Lopen should be far ahead of them. He spent the hike listening with half an ear as Lopen talked about his extended family. The more Kaladin thought about what he was planning, the more brazen it seemed. Perhaps Lopen was right to question his sanity. But Kaladin had tried being rational. Hed tried being careful. That had failed; now there wasnt any more time for logic or care. Hashal obviously intended Bridge Four to be exterminated. When clever, careful plans failed, it was time to try something desperate. Lopen cut off suddenly. Kaladin hesitated. The Herdazian man had grown pale-faced and frozen in place. What was Scraping. Kaladin froze as well, a panic rising in him. One of the side corridors echoed with a deep grinding sound. Kaladin turned slowly, just in time to catch sight of something largeno, something enormous  moving down the distant chasm. Shadows in the dim light, the sound of chitinous legs scratching on rock. Kaladin held his breath, sweating, but the beast didnt come in their direction. The scraping grew softer, then eventually faded. He and Lopen stood immobile for a long time after the last sound had vanished. Finally, Lopen spoke. Guess the nearby ones arent all dead, eh, gancho? Yeah, Kaladin said. He jumped suddenly as Syl zipped back to find them. He unconsciously sucked in Stormlight as he did so, and when she alighted in the air, she found him sheepishly glowing. What is going on? she demanded, hands on hips. Chasmfiend, Kaladin said. Really? She sounded excited. We should chase after it! What? Sure, she said. You could fight it, Ill bet. Syl Her eyes were twinkling with amusement. Just a joke. Come on. She zipped away. He and Lopen stepped more softly now. Eventually Syl landed on the side of the chasm, standing there as if in mockery of when Kaladin had tried to walk up the wall. Kaladin looked up at the shadow of a wooden bridge forty feet above. This was the shallowest chasm theyd been able to find; they tended to get deeper and