I am going to join the army, Kal thought. Ill run away, Ill Suddenly, that dreamthat planseemed incredibly childish. It belonged to a boy who ought to eat fruited meals and deserved to be sent away when the men talked of important topics. For the first time, the thought of not training with the surgeons filled him with regret. The door into the kitchens banged open. Roshones son, Rillir, sauntered in, chatting with the person behind him. dont know why Father insists on keeping everything so dreary around here all the time. Oil lamps in the hallways? Could he be any more provincial? It would do him some real good if I could get him out on a hunt or two. We might as well get some use out of being in this remote place. Rillir noticed Kal sitting there, but passed over him as one might register the presence of a stool or a shelf for wine: noting it, but otherwise ignoring it. Kals own eyes were on the person who followed Rillir. Laral. Wistiows daughter. So much had changed. It had been so long, and seeing her brought up old emotions. Shame, excitement. Did she know that his parents had been hoping to marry him to her? Merely seeing her again almost flustered him completely. But no. His father could look Roshone in the eyes. He could do the same with her. Kal stood up and nodded to her. She glanced at him, and blushed faintly, walking in with an old nurse in towa chaperone. What had happened to the Laral hed known, the girl with the loose yellow and black hair who liked climbing on rocks and running through fields? Now she was wrapped up in sleek yellow silk, a stylish lighteyed womans dress, her neatly coiffed hair dyed black to hide the blond. Her left hand was hidden modestly in her sleeve. Laral looked like a lighteyes. Wistiows wealthwhat was left of ithad gone to her. And when Roshone had been given authority over Hearthstone and granted the mansion and surrounding lands, Highprince Sadeas had given Laral a dowry in compensation. You, Rillir said, nodding to Kal and speaking in a smooth, city accent. Be a good lad and fetch us some supper. Well take it here in the nook. Im not a kitchen servant. So? Kal flushed. If youre expecting some kind of tip or reward for just fetching me a meal Im notI mean Kal looked to Laral. Tell him, Laral. She looked away. Well, go on, boy, she said. Do as youre told. Were hungry.