to you , Kaladin Stormblessed. I expect you to be able to play it when next we meet! And with that, the storyteller turned and broke into a jog, heading off toward the warcamps. He didnt move to go up into them, however. His shadowed figure turned to the south, as if he were intending to leave the camps. Where was he going? Kaladin looked down at the flute in his hand. It was heavier than he had expected. What kind of wood was it? He rubbed its smooth length, thinking. I dont like him, Syls voice said suddenly, coming from behind. Hes strange. Kaladin spun to find her on the boulder, sitting where Hoid had been a moment ago. Syl! Kaladin said. How long have you been here? She shrugged. You were watching the story. I didnt want to interrupt. She sat with hands in her lap, looking uncomfortable. Syl Im behind what is happening to you, she said, voice soft. Im doing it. Kaladin frowned, stepping forward. Its both of us, she said. But without me, nothing would be changing in you. Im taking something from you. And giving something in return. Its the way it used to work, though I cant remember how or when. I just know that it was. I Hush, she said. Im talking. Sorry. Im willing to stop it, if you want, she said. But I would go back to being as I was before. That scares me. Floating on the wind, never remembering anything for longer than a few minutes. Its because of this tie between us that I can think again, that I can remember what and who I am. If we end it, I lose that. She looked up at Kaladin, sorrowful. He looked into those eyes, then took a deep breath. Come, he said, turning, walking back down the peninsula. She flew over, becoming a ribbon of light, floating idly in the air beside his head. Soon they reached the place beneath the ridge leading to the warcamps. Kaladin turned north, toward Sadeass camp. The cremlings had retreated to their cracks and burrows, but many of the plants still continued to let their fronds float in the cool wind. When he passed, the grass pulled back in, looking like the fur of some black beast in the night, lit by Salas.