with an anxious protest on her lips. She sighed, then seated herself in a demure posture on the stone base of a lantern pole. It should be safe. She saw other lighteyed women passing on the street, though they were often carried in palanquins or those small, hand-pulled vehicles. She even saw the occasional real carriage, though only the very wealthy could afford to keep horses. A few minutes later, Yalb popped out of the crowd as if from nowhere and waved for her to follow. She rose and hurried to him. Should we get a porter? she asked as he led her to a large side street that ran laterally across the citys hill. She stepped carefully; her skirt was long enough that she worried about tearing the hem on the stone. The strip at the bottom was designed to be easily replaced, but Shallan could hardly afford to waste spheres on such things. Nah, Yalb said. Its right here. He pointed along another cross street. This one had a row of shops climbing up the steep slope, each with a sign hanging out front bearing the glyphpair for book , and those glyphs were often styled into the shape of a book. Illiterate servants who might be sent to a shop had to be able to recognize them. Merchants of the same type like to clump together, Yalb said, rubbing his chin. Seems dumb to me, but I guess merchants are like fish. Where you find one, youll find others. The same could be said of ideas, Shallan said, counting. Six different shops. All were lit with Stormlight in the windows, cool and even. Third one on the left, Yalb said, pointing. Merchants name is Artmyrn. My sources say hes the best. It was a Thaylen name. Likely Yalb had asked others from his homeland, and they had pointed him here. She nodded to Yalb and they climbed up the steep stone street to the shop. Yalb didnt enter with her; shed noticed that many men were uncomfortable around books and reading, even those who werent Vorin. She pushed through the doorstout wood set with two crystal panelsand stepped into a warm room, uncertain what to expect. Shed never gone into a store to purchase anything; shed either sent servants, or the merchants had come to her. The room inside looked very inviting, with large, comfortable easy chairs beside a hearth. Flamespren danced on burning logs there, and the floor was wood. Seamless wood; it had probably been Soulcast that way directly from the stone beneath. Lavish indeed. A woman stood behind a counter at the back of the room. She wore an embroidered skirt and blouse, rather than the sleek, silk, one-piece havah that