mist, and she wrapped her arms around herself as if chilled by his comments. Odium reigns. Syl, he said, frowning, thinking back to his strange dream. Have you ever heard of something called Odium? I dont mean the feeling, I meana person, or something called by that name. Syl suddenly hissed. It was a feral, disturbing sound. She zipped off his shoulder, becoming a darting streak of light, and shot up underneath the eaves of the next building. He blinked. Syl? he called, drawing the attention of a couple of passing washwomen. The spren did not reappear. Kaladin folded his arms. That word had set her off. Why? A loud series of curses interrupted his thoughts. Kaladin spun as a man burst out of a handsome stone building across the street and shoved a half-naked woman out in front of him. The man had bright blue eyes, and his coatcarried over one armhad red knots on the shoulder. A lighteyed officer, not very high- ranking. Perhaps seventh dahn. The half-dressed woman fell to the ground. She held the loose front of the dress to her chest, crying, her long black hair down and tied with two red ribbons. The dress was that of a lighteyed woman, except that both sleeves were short, safehand exposed. A courtesan. The officer continued to curse as he pulled on his coat. He didnt do up the buttons. Instead, he stepped forward and kicked the whore in the belly. She gasped, painspren pulling from the ground and gathering around her. Nobody on the street paused, though most did hurry on their way, heads down. Kaladin growled, jumping into the roadway, pushing his way past a group of soldiers. Then he stopped. Three men in blue stepped out of the crowd, moving purposefully between the fallen woman and the officer in red. Only one was lighteyed, judging by the knots on his shoulders. Golden knots. A high-ranking man indeed, second or third dahn. These obviously werent from Sadeass army, not with those well-pressed blue coats. Sadeass officer hesitated. The officer in blue rested his hand on the hilt of his sword. The other two were holding fine halberds with gleaming half-moon heads. A group of soldiers in red moved out of the crowd and began to surround those in blue. The air grew tense, and Kaladin realized that the streetbustling just moments agowas quickly emptying. He stood practically alone, the only one watching the three men in blue, now surrounded by seven in red. The woman was still on the ground, sniffling. She huddled next to the blue garbed officer.