to discover who the Shardbearer had been. You did a brave thing today, soldier, Amaram said to Kaladin. I What did you say to that? I wish Id left you to die, sir. Thank you. Everyone else fled, including my honor guard. The two men closest to the door looked down, ashamed. But you charged in for the attack. Why? I didnt really think about it, sir. Amaram seemed displeased by the answer. Your name is Kaladin, is it? Yes, Brightlord. From Hearthstone? Remember? Amaram frowned, looking confused. Your cousin, Roshone, is citylord there. He sent my brother into the army when you came recruiting. II joined with my brother. Ah yes, Amaram said. I believe I remember you. He didnt ask after Tien. You still havent answered my question. Why attack? It wasnt for the Shardblade. You rejected that. Yes, sir. To the side, the stormwarden raised his eyebrows, as if he hadnt believed that Kaladin had turned down the Shards. The soldier holding the Shardblade kept glancing at it in awe. Why? Amaram said. Why did you reject it? I have to know. I dont want it, sir. Yes, but why? Because it would make me one of you. Because I cant look at that weapon and not see the faces of the men its wielder slaughtered so offhandedly . Becausebecause I cant really answer that, sir, Kaladin said, sighing. The stormwarden walked over to the rooms brazier, shaking his head. He began warming his hands. Look, Kaladin said. Those Shards are mine. Well, I said to give them to Coreb. Hes the highest ranked of my soldiers, and the best fighter among them. The other three would understand. Besides, Coreb would take care of them, once he was a lighteyes. Amaram looked at Coreb, then nodded to his attendants. One closed the window shutters. The others pulled out swords, then began moving toward the four remaining members of Kaladins squad. Kaladin yelled, leaping forward, but two of the officers had positioned themselves close to him. One slammed a punch into Kaladins gut as soon as he started moving. He was so surprised that it connected directly, and he gasped. No. He fought off the pain, turning to swing at the man. The mans eyes opened