You will be forgiven, Jasnah said. Depending on the devotary you have chosen. Forgiven? Me? The elderly man seemed to find that amusing, and for a moment, Shallan thought she saw deep regret in his expression. Unlikely. But that is something else entirely. Please. I stand by my questions. And I stand by my evasiveness, Your Majesty. Im sorry. I do forgive your curiosity, but I cannot reward it. These secrets are mine. Of course, of course. The king sat back, looking embarrassed. Now you probably assume I brought this meal simply to ambush you about the fabrial. You had another purpose, then? Well, you see, Ive heard the most wonderful things about your wards artistic skill. I thought that maybe He smiled at Shallan. Of course, Your Majesty, Shallan said. Id be happy to draw your likeness. He beamed as she stood, leaving her meal half eaten and gathering her things. She glanced at Jasnah, but the older womans face was unreadable. Would you prefer a simple portrait against a white background? Shallan asked. Or would you prefer a broader perspective, including surroundings? Perhaps, Jasnah said pointedly, you should wait until the meal is finished, Shallan? Shallan blushed, feeling a fool for her enthusiasm. Of course. No, no, the king said. Im quite finished. A wider sketch would be perfect, child. How would you like me to sit? He slid his chair back, posing and smiling in a grandfatherly way. She blinked, fixing the image in her mind. That is perfect, Your Majesty. You can return to your meal. Dont you need me to sit still? Ive posed for portraits before. Its all right, Shallan assured him, sitting down. Very well, he said, pulling back to the table. I do apologize for making you use me, of all people, as a subject for your art. This face of mine isnt the most impressive one youve depicted, Im sure. Nonsense, Shallan said. A face like yours is just what an artist needs. It is? Yes, the She cut herself off. Shed been about to quip, Yes, the skin is enough like parchment to make an ideal canvas. that handsome nose of yours, and wise furrowed skin. It will be quite striking in the black charcoal. Oh, well then. Proceed. Though I still cant see how youll work without me holding a pose. Brightness Shallan has some unique talents, Jasnah said. Shallan began her