Regardless, the time was upon her. Shallan found her hand going to her safepouch, and she felt inside of it, running her fingers along the chains of her broken fabrial. Her heart beat faster. She glanced at Jasnah, but the woman was just lying there, floating, eyes closed. What if she opened her eyes? Dont think of that! Shallan told herself. Just do it. Make the swap. Its so close. You are progressing more quickly than I had assumed you would, Jasnah said suddenly. Shallan spun, but Jasnahs eyes were still closed. I was wrong to judge you so harshly because of your prior education. I myself have often said that passion outperforms upbringing. You have the determination and the capacity to become a respected scholar, Shallan. I realize that the answers seem slow in coming, but continue your research. You will have them eventually. Shallan stood for a moment, hand in her pouch, heart thumping uncontrollably. She felt sick. I cant do it, she realized. Stormfather, but Im a fool. I came all of this wayand now I cant do it! She pulled her hand from her pouch and stalked back across the bathing chamber to her chair. What was she going to tell her brothers? Had she just doomed her family? She sat down, setting her book aside and sighing, prompting Jasnah to open her eyes. Jasnah watched her, then righted herself in the water and gestured for the hairsoap. Gritting her teeth, Shallan stood up and fetched the soap tray for Jasnah, bringing it over and squatting down to proffer it. Jasnah took the powdery hairsoap and mashed it in her hand, lathering it before putting it into her sleek black hair with both hands. Even naked, Jasnah Kholin was composed and in control. Perhaps we have spent too much time indoors of late, the princess said. You look penned up, Shallan. Anxious. Im fine, Shallan said brusquely. Hum, yes. As evidenced by your perfectly reasonable, relaxed tone. Perhaps we need to shift some of your training from history to something more hands-on, more visceral. Like natural science? Shallan asked, perking up. Jasnah tilted her head back. Shallan knelt down on a towel beside the pool, then reached down with her freehand, massaging the soap into her mistresss lush tresses. I was thinking philosophy, Jasnah said. Shallan blinked. Philosophy? What good is that? Isnt it the art of saying nothing with as many words as possible?