blew. Kaladins squad charged. Wheres the boy? Kaladin said, yanking his spear out of the chest of a man in brown. The enemy soldier fell to the ground, groaning. Dallet! The burly sergeant was fighting. He couldnt turn to acknowledge the yell. Kaladin cursed, scanning the chaotic battlefield. Spears hit shields, flesh, leather; men yelled and screamed. Painspren swarmed the ground, like small orange hands or bits of sinew, reaching up from the ground amid the blood of the fallen. Kaladins squad was all accounted for, their wounded protected at the center. All except the new boy. Tien. C enn, Kaladin thought. His name is Cenn. Kaladin caught sight of a flash of green in the middle of the enemy brown. A terrified voice somehow cut through the commotion. It was him. Kaladin threw himself out of formation, prompting a call of surprise from Larn, who had been fighting at his side. Kaladin ducked past a spear thrust by an enemy, dashing over the stony ground, hopping corpses. Cenn had been knocked to the ground, spear raised. An enemy soldier slammed his weapon down. No. Kaladin blocked the blow, deflecting the enemy spear and skidding to a stop in front of Cenn. There were six spearmen here, all wearing brown. Kaladin spun among them in a wild offensive rush. His spear seemed to flow of its own accord. He swept the feet out from under one man, took down another with a thrown knife. He was like water running down a hill, flowing, always moving. Spearheads flashed in the air around him, hafts hissing with speed. Not one hit him. He could not be stopped, not when he felt like this. When he had the energy of defending the fallen, the power of standing to protect one of his men. Kaladin snapped his spear into a resting position, crouching with one foot forward, one behind, spear held under his arm. Sweat trickled from his brow, cooled by the breeze. Odd. There hadnt been a breeze before. Now it seemed to envelop him. All six enemy spearmen were dead or incapacitated. Kaladin breathed in and out once, then turned to see to Cenns wound. He dropped his spear beside him,