wide as Kaladins fist connected, throwing him backward. Several other men piled on him. He had no weapons, and he was so tired from the battle that he could barely stay upright. They knocked him to the ground with punches to his side and back. He collapsed to the floor, pained, but still able to watch as the soldiers came at his men. Reesh was cut down first. Kaladin gasped, stretching out a hand, struggling to his knees. This cant happen. Please, no! Hab and Alabet had their knives out, but fell quickly, one soldier gutting Hab as two others hacked down Alabet. Alabets knife thumped as it hit the ground, followed by his arm, then finally his corpse. Coreb lasted the longest, backing away, hands held forward. He didnt scream. He seemed to understand. Kaladins eyes were watering, and soldiers grabbed him from behind, stopping him from helping. Corebs fell to his knees and began to beg. One of Amarams men took him at the neck, neatly severing his head. It was over in seconds. You bastard! Kaladin said, gasping against his pain. You storming bastard! Kaladin found himself weeping, struggling uselessly at the four men holding him. The blood of the fallen spearmen soaked the boards. They were dead. All of them were dead. Stormfather! All of them! Amaram stepped forward, expression grim. He went down on one knee before Kaladin. Im sorry. Bastard! Kaladin screamed as loud as he could. I couldnt risk them telling what they saw. This is what must be, soldier. Its for the good of the army. Theyre going to be told that your squad helped the Shardbearer. You see, the men must believe that I killed him. Youre taking the Shards for yourself! I am trained in the sword, Amaram said, and am accustomed to plate. It will serve Alethkar best if I bear the Shards. You could have asked me for them! Storm you! And when news got around camp? Amaram said grimly. That youd killed the Shardbearer but I had the Shards? Nobody would believe that youd given them up of your own free choice. Besides, son. You wouldnt have let me keep them. Amaram shook his head. Youd have changed your mind. In a day or two, youd have wanted the wealth and prestigeothers would convince you of it. Youd have demanded that I return them to you. It took hours to decide, but Restares is rightthis is what must be done. For the good of Alethkar. Its not about Alethkar! Its about you! Storm it, youre supposed to be better than the others! Tears dripped from Kaladins chin.