Teft knew about the knobweed. They could keep earning extra money to pay for things. You did this for us, Moash put in. Wed have died on that field. Perhaps as many as died in the other bridge crews. This way, were only going to lose one. I say it isnt right, what theyre doing, Teft said with a scowl. We talked about cutting you down. No, Kaladin said. That would only earn you a similar punishment. The three men shared glances. It seemed theyd come to the same conclusion. What did Sadeas say? Kaladin asked. About me. That he understood how a bridgeman would want to save his life, Teft said, even at others expense. He called you a selfish coward, but acted like that was all that could be expected. He says hes letting the Stormfather judge you, Moash added. Jezerezeh, king of Heralds. He says that if you deserve to live, you will. He trailed off. He knew as well as the others that unprotected men didnt survive highstorms, not like this. I want you three to do something for me, Kaladin said, closing his eyes against the blood trickling down his face from his lip, which hed cracked open by speaking. Anything, Kaladin, Rock said. I want you to go back into the barrack and tell the men to come out after the storm. Tell them to look up at me tied here. Tell them Ill open my eyes and look back at them, and theyll know that I survived. The three bridgemen fell silent. Yes, of course, Kaladin, Teft said. Well do it. Tell them, Kaladin continued, voice firmer, that it wont end here. Tell them I chose not to take my own life, and so theres no way in D amnation Im going to give it up to Sadeas. Rock smiled one of those broad smiles of his. By the ulitekanaki , Kaladin. I almost believe youll do it. Here, Teft said, handing him something. For luck. Kaladin took the object in a weak, bloodstained hand. It was a sphere, a full skymark. It was dun, the Stormlight gone from it. Carry a sphere with you into the storm, the old saying said, and at least youll have light by which to see. Its all we were able to save from your pouch, Teft said. Gaz and Lamaril got the rest. We complained, but what were we to do? Thank you, Kaladin said.