The practical decor was of rock decorated with small colorful stones set in mortar up the sides of the walls. Shallan sat beside the pool, fully dressed, reading as she waited on Jasnahs needs. The book was Gavilars accountas spoken to Jasnah herself years agoafter his first meeting with the strange parshmen later known as the Parshendi. Occasionally, during our explorations, wed meet with natives, she read. Not parshmen. Natan people, with their pale bluish skin, wide noses, and wool-like white hair. In exchange for gifts of food, they would point us to the hunting grounds of greatshells. Then we met the parshmen. Id been on a half-dozen expeditions to Natanatan, but never had I seen anything like this! Parshmen, living on their own? All logic, experience, and science declared that to be an impossibility. Parshmen need the hand of civilized peoples to guide them. This has been proven time and time again. Leave one out in the wilderness, and it will just sit there, doing nothing, until someone comes along to give it orders. Yet here was a group who could hunt, make weapons, build buildings, and indeedcreate their own civilization. We soon realized that this single discovery could expand, perhaps overthrow, all we understood about our gentle servants. Shallan moved her eyes down to the bottom of the page whereseparated by a linethe undertext was written in a small, cramped script. Most books dictated by men had an undertext, notes added by the woman or ardent who scribed the book. By unspoken agreement, the undertext was never shared out loud. Here, a wife would sometimes clarifyor even contradictthe account of her husband. The only way to preserve such honesty for future scholars was to maintain the sanctity and secrecy of the writing. It should be noted, Jasnah had written in the undertext to this passage, that I have adapted my fathers wordsby his own instructionto make them more appropriate for recording. That meant she made his dictation sound more scholarly and impressive. In addition, by most accounts, King Gavilar originally ignored these strange, self-sufficient parshmen. It was only after explanation by his scholars and scribes that he understood the import of what hed discovered. This inclusion is not meant to highlight my fathers ignorance; he was, and is, a warrior. His attention was not on the anthropological import of our expedition, but upon the hunt that was to be its culmination. Shallan closed the cover, thoughtful. The volume was from Jasnahs own collectionthe Palanaeum had several copies, but Shallan wasnt allowed to bring the Palanaeums books into a bathing chamber. Jasnahs clothing lay on a bench at the side of the room. Atop the folded garments, a small golden pouch held the Soulcaster. Shallan glanced at Jasnah.