Your scribes say it is the one bound to my daughter. Jasnah! It had been weeks since theyd last communicated; the messages hed sent her had prompted only the tersest of answers. When Jasnah was deeply immersed in one of her projects, she often ignored all else. If she was sending to him now, either shed discovered something or she was taking a break to renew her contacts. Dalinar turned to look down the latrine. Hed nearly completed it; and he realized hed been unconsciously planning to make his final decision once he reached the end. He itched to continue working. But if Jasnah wanted to converse He needed to talk with her. Perhaps he could persuade her to return to the Shattered Plains. He would feel a lot more secure about abdicating if he knew that she would come watch over Elhokar and Adolin. Dalinar tossed aside his hammerhis pounding had bent the haft a good thirty degrees and the head was a misshapen lumpand jumped out of the ditch. Hed have a new weapon forged; that was not unusual for Shardbearers. Your pardon, Mathana, Dalinar said, but I fear I must beg your leave so soon after begging your forgiveness. I must receive this communication. He bowed to her and turned to hurry away. Actually, Navani said from behind, I think Ill beg something of you. It has been months since Ive spoken with my daughter. Ill join you, if youll permit it. He hesitated, but he couldnt deny her so soon after giving her offense. Of course. He waited as Navani walked to her palanquin and settled herself. The bearers lifted it, and Dalinar struck out again, the bearers and Navanis borrowed wards walking close. You are a kind man, Dalinar Kholin, Navani said, that same sly smile on her lips as she sat back in the cushioned chair. Im afraid that Im compelled to find you fascinating. My sense of honor makes me easy to manipulate, Dalinar said, eyes forward. Dealing with her was not something he needed right now. I know it does. No need to toy with me, Navani. She laughed softly. Im not trying to take advantage of you, Dalinar, I She paused. Well, perhaps I am taking advantage of you just a little. But Im not toying with you. This last year in particular, youve begun to be the person the others all claim that they are. Cant you see how intriguing that makes you? I dont do it to be intriguing. If you did, it wouldnt work! She leaned toward him. Do you know why I picked Gavilar instead of you all those years ago?