long time since hed visited the large, two-story building. It was constructed with a standard roof that sloped toward the stormward side, but was much larger. The walls were of thick white stones, and it had majestic square pillars on the leeward side. Would he see Laral here? He was embarrassed by how infrequently he thought about her these days. The mansions front grounds had a low stone wall covered with all kinds of exotic plants. Rockbuds lined the top, their vines draping down the outside. Clusters of a bulbous variety of shalebark grew along the inside, bursting with a variety of bright colors. Oranges, reds, yellows, and blues. Some outcroppings looked like heaps of clothing, with folds spread like fans. Others grew out like horns. Most had tendrils like threads that waved in the wind. Brightlord Roshone paid much more attention to his grounds than Wistiow had. They walked up past the whitewashed pillars and entered between the thick wooden stormdoors. The vestibule inside had a low ceiling and was decorated with ceramics; zircon spheres gave them a pale blue cast. A tall servant in a long black coat and a bright purple cravat greeted them. He was Natir, the steward now that Miliv had died. Hed been brought in from Dalilak, a large coastal city to the north. Natir led them to a dining room where Roshone sat at a long darkwood table. Hed gained weight, though not enough to be called fat. He still had that grey- flecked beard, and his hair was greased back down to his collar. He wore white trousers and a tight red vest over a white shirt. Hed already begun his meal, and the spicy scents made Kals stomach rumble. How long had it been since hed had pork? There were five different dipping sauces on the table, and Roshones wine was a deep, crystalline orange. He ate alone, no sign of Laral or his son. The servant gestured toward a side table set up in a room next to the dining hall. Kals father took one look at it, then walked to Roshones table and sat down. Roshone paused, skewer halfway to his lips, spicy brown sauce dripping to the table before him. Im of the second nahn, Lirin said, and I have a personal invitation to dine with you. Surely you follow the precepts of rank closely enough to give me a place at your table. Roshone clenched his teeth, but did not object. Taking a deep breath, Kal sat down beside his father. Before he left to join the war on the Shattered Plains, he had to know. Was his father a coward or a man of courage? By the light of spheres at home, Lirin had always seemed weak. He worked in his surgery room, ignoring what the townspeople said about him. He told his