illuminate her sketchpad sitting beside the bed. Jasnah probably hadnt even bothered to look through it. She was so dismissive of the visual arts. Next to the sketchpad was the book Jasnah had given her. The Book of Endless Pages . Why had she left that? Shallan picked up the charcoal pencil and flipped through to a blank page in her sketchbook. She passed several pictures of the symbol-headed creatures, some set in this very room. They lurked around her, always. At some times, she thought she saw them in the corners of her eyes. At others, she could hear them whispering. She hadnt dared speak back to them again. She began to draw, fingers unsteady, sketching Jasnah on that day in the hospital. Sitting beside Shallans bed, holding the jam. Shallan hadnt taken a distinct Memory, and wasnt as accurate as if she had, but she remembered well enough to draw Jasnah with her finger stuck into the jam. She had raised that finger to smell the strawberries. Why? Why put her finger into the jam? Wouldnt raising the jar to her nose have been enough? Jasnah hadnt made any faces at the scent. In fact, Jasnah hadnt mentioned that the jam had spoiled. Shed just replaced the lid and handed back the jar. Shallan flipped to another blank page and drew Jasnah with a piece of bread raised to her lips. After eating it, shed grimaced. Odd. Shallan lowered her pen, looking at that sketch of Jasnah, piece of bread pinched between her fingers. It wasnt a perfect reproduction, but it was close enough. In the sketch, it looked like the piece of bread was melting . As if it were squished unnaturally between Jasnahs fingers as she put it into her mouth. Could it could it be? Shallan slid out of the bed, gathering the sphere and carrying it in her hand, sketchpad tucked under her arm. The guard was gone. Nobody seemed to care what happened to her; she was being shipped off in the morning anyway. The stone floor was cold beneath her bare feet. She wore only the white robe, and felt almost naked. At least her safehand was covered. There was a door to the city outside at the end of the hallway, and she stepped through it. She crossed quietly through the city, making her way to the Ralinsa, avoiding dark alleyways. She walked up toward the Conclave, long red hair blowing free behind her, drawing more than a few strange looks and stares. It was so late at night that nobody on the roadway cared enough to ask if she wanted help. The master-servants at the entrance to the Conclave let her pass. They recognized her, and more than a few asked if she needed help. She declined, walking alone down to the Veil. She passed inside, then looked up at the walls full of balconies, some of them lit with spheres.