would send more envoys and scholars to find out why the Parshendi killed Gavilar. We gave up on that too easily. I still wonder if the assassination was initiated by miscreants or rebels among their own people. Id discover what their culture isand yes, they do have one. If rebels werent the cause of the assassination, Id keep asking until I learned why they did it. Id demand repaymentperhaps their own king, delivered to us for execution in turnin exchange for granting them peace. As for the gemhearts, Id speak with my scientists and discover a better method of holding this territory. Perhaps with mass homesteading of the area, securing all of the Unclaimed Hills, we could truly expand our borders and claim the Shattered Plains. I wouldnt abandon vengeance, Your Majesty, but I would approach it and our war heremore thoughtfully. Right now, we know too little to be effective. Elhokar looked surprised. He nodded. I Uncle, that actually makes sense. Why didnt you explain it before? Dalinar blinked. Just several weeks ago, Elhokar had been indignant when Dalinar had merely mentioned the idea of turning back. What had changed? I dont give the boy enough credit, he realized. I have had trouble explaining my own thoughts recently, Your Majesty. Your Majesty! Sadeas said. Surely you wouldnt actually consider This latest attempt on my life has me unsettled, Sadeas. Tell me. Have you made any progress in determining who put the weakened gems in my Plate? Not yet, Your Majesty. Theyre trying to kill me, Elhokar said softly, huddling down in his armor. Theyll see me dead, like my father. Sometimes I do wonder if were chasing after the ten fools here. The assassin in whitehe was Shin. The Parshendi took responsibility for sending him, Sadeas said. Yes, Elhokar replied. And yet they are savages, and easily manipulated. It would be a perfect distraction, pinning the blame on a group of parshmen. We go to war for years and years, never noticing the real villains, working quietly in my own camp. They watch me. Always. Waiting. I see their faces in mirrors. Symbols, twisted, inhuman Dalinar glanced at Sadeas, and the two shared a disturbed look. Was Elhokars paranoia growing worse, or had it always been hidden? He saw phantom cabals in every shadow, and nowwith the attempt on his life he had proof to feed those worries. Retreating from the Shattered Plains could be a good idea, Dalinar said carefully. But not if it is to begin another war with someone else. We must stabilize and unify our people.