stretch his legs. He doubted anyone else in the caravan knew how to recognize blackbanenarrow leaves on a trefoil prongso it hadnt been too much of a risk. Absently, he took the leaves out and rubbed them between forefinger and palm. They had to dry before reaching their potency. Why did he carry them? Did he mean to give them to Tvlakv and get revenge? Or were they a contingency, to be retained in case things got too bad, too unbearable? Surely I havent fallen that far, he thought. It was just more likely his instinct of securing a weapon when he saw one, no matter how unusual. The landscape was dark. Salas was the smallest and dimmest of the moons, and while her violet coloring had inspired countless poets, she didnt do much to help you see your hand in front of your face. Oh! a soft, feminine voice said. Whats that? A translucent figurejust a handspan tallpeeked up from over the edge of the floor near Kaladin. She climbed up and into the wagon, as if scaling some high plateau. The windspren had taken the shape of a young womanlarger spren could change shapes and sizeswith an angular face and long, flowing hair that faded into mist behind her head. SheKaladin couldnt help but think of the windspren as a shewas formed of pale blues and whites and wore a simple, flowing white dress of a girlish cut that came down to midcalf. Like the hair, it faded to mist at the very bottom. Her feet, hands, and face were crisply distinct, and she had the hips and bust of a slender woman. Kaladin frowned at the spirit. Spren were all around; you just ignored them most of the time. But this one was an oddity. The windspren walked upward, as if climbing an invisible staircase. She reached a height where she could stare at Kaladins hand, so he closed his fingers around the black leaves. She walked around his fist in a circle. Although she glowed like an afterimage from looking at the sun, her form provided no real illumination. She bent down, looking at his hand from different angles, like a child expecting to find a hidden piece of candy. What is it? Her voice was like a whisper. You can show me. I wont tell anyone. Is it a treasure? Have you cut off a piece of the nights cloak and tucked it away? Is it the heart of a beetle, so tiny yet powerful? He said nothing, causing the spren to pout. She floated up, hovering though she had no wings, and looked him in the eyes. Kaladin, why must you ignore me? Kaladin started. What did you say? She smiled mischievously, then sprang away, her figure blurring into a long white ribbon of blue-white light. She shot between the barstwisting and