Fiercely loyal, with initiative and a strong sense of command. The soldiers liked him. Perhaps he was a little too friendly with them, but that could be forgiven. Even his hotheadedness could be forgiven, assuming he learned to channel it. Dalinar left the young man to his work and went to check on Gallant. He found the Ryshadium with the grooms, who had set up a horse picket on the southern side of the plateau. They had bandaged the horses scrapes, and he was no longer favoring his leg. Dalinar patted the large stallion on the neck, looking into those deep black eyes. The horse seemed ashamed. It wasnt your fault you threw me, Gallant, Dalinar said in a soothing voice. Im just glad you werent harmed too badly. He turned to a nearby groom. Give him extra feed this evening, and two crispmelons. Yes sir, Brightlord. But he wont eat extra food. He never does if we try to give it to him. Hell eat it tonight, Dalinar said, patting the Ryshadiums neck again. He only eats it when he feels he deserves it, son. The lad seemed confused. Like most of them, he thought of Ryshadium as just another breed of horse. A man couldnt really understand until hed had one accept him as rider. It was like wearing Shardplate, an experience that was completely indescribable. Youll eat both of those crispmelons, Dalinar said, pointing at the horse. You deserve them. Gallant blustered. You do , Dalinar said. The horse nickered, seeming content. Dalinar checked the leg, then nodded to the groom. Take good care of him, son. Ill ride another horseback. Yes, Brightlord. They got him a mounta sturdy, dust-colored mare. He was extra careful when he swung into the saddle. Ordinary horses always seemed so fragile to him. The king rode out after the first squad of troops, Wit at his side. Sadeas, Dalinar noted, rode behind, where Wit couldnt get at him. The bridge crew waited silently, resting as the king and his procession crossed. Like most of Sadeass bridge crews, this one was constructed from a jumble of human refuse. Foreigners, deserters, thieves, murderers, and slaves. Many probably deserved their punishment, but the frightful way Sadeas chewed through them put Dalinar on edge. How long would it be before he could no longer fill the bridge crews with the suitably expendable? Did any man, even a murderer, deserve such a fate?