this insanity? Amarams armyKaladins armywas trying to hold the hilltop. Another army, also Alethi, was trying to take it from them. That was all Kaladin knew. The enemy seemed more numerous than his own army. Hell be safe, Kaladin thought. He will be! But he had trouble convincing himself. Tiens stint as a messenger boy hadnt lasted long. Recruitment was down, hed been told, and every hand that could hold a spear was needed. Tien and the other older messenger boys had been organized into several squads of deep reserves. Dalar said those wouldnt ever be used. Probably. Unless the army was in serious danger. Did being surrounded atop a steep hill, their lines in chaos, constitute serious danger? Get to the top, he thought, looking up the incline. Amarams banner still flew up there. Their soldiers must be holding. All Kaladin could see was a churning mess of men in orange and the occasional bit of forest green. Kaladin took off at a run up the side of the hill. He didnt turn as men shouted at him, didnt check to see which side they were from. Patches of grass pulled down in front of him. He stumbled over a few corpses, dashed around a couple of scraggly stumpweight trees, and avoided places where men were fighting. There, he thought, noting a group of spearmen ahead, standing in a line, watching warily. Green. Amarams colors. Kaladin scrambled up to them, and the soldiers let him pass. Which squad are you from, soldier? said a stocky lighteyed man with the knots of a low captain. Dead, sir, Kaladin forced out. All dead. We were in Brightlord Tashlins company, and Bah, the man said, turning to a runner. Third report weve had that Tashlin is down. Somebody warn Amaram. East side is weakening by degrees. He looked to Kaladin. You, off to the reserves for reassignment. Yes, sir, Kaladin said, numb. He glanced down the way hed come. The incline was littered with corpses, many of them in green. Even as he watched, a group of three stragglers rushing for the top was intercepted and slaughtered. None of the men at the top moved to help them. Kaladin could have fallen just as easily, within yards of safety. He knew that it was probably important, strategically, that these soldiers in the line maintain their positions. But it seemed so heartless. Find Tien, he thought, trotting off toward the reserves field on the north side of the wide hilltop. Here, however, he found only more chaos. Groups of dazed