or the other often wasnt enough. Sadeas had faced Parshendi Shardbearers on the field, and had always been forced to retreat, lest he be slain himself. Im certain we could arrange something more equitable, Dalinar finally said. If he won Shards, hed been hoping to be able to give them to Renarin. Im sure, Roion said skeptically. Dalinar drew in a breath. He needed to be bolder. What if I offer them to you? Excuse me? We try a joint attack. If I win a Shardblade or Plate, you get the first set. But I keep the second. Roions eyes narrowed. Youd do that? On my honor, Roion. Well, nobody would doubt that. But can you blame a man for being wary? Of what? I am a highprince, Dalinar, Roion said. My princedom is the smallest, true, but I am my own man. I would not see myself subordinated to someone greater. Youve already become part of something greater, Dalinar thought with frustration. That happened the moment you swore fealty to Gavilar. Roion and the others refused to make good on their promises. Our kingdom can be so much more than it is, Roion. Perhaps. But perhaps Im satisfied with what I have. Either way, you make an interesting proposal. I shall have to think on it further. Very well, Dalinar said, but his instinct said that Roion would decline the offer. The man was too suspicious. The highprinces barely trusted one another enough to work together when there werent Shardblades and gems at stake. Will I be seeing you at the feast this evening? Roion asked. Why wouldnt you? Dalinar asked with a sigh. Well, the stormwardens have been saying that there could be a highstorm tonight, you see I will be there, Dalinar said flatly. Yes, of course, Roion said, chuckling. No reason why you wouldnt be. He smiled at Dalinar and withdrew, his attendants following. Dalinar sighed, turning to study the Prime Map, thinking through the meeting and what it meant. He stood there for a long time. Looking down on the Plains, as if a god far above. The plateaus looked like close islands, or perhaps jagged pieces set in a massive stained-glass window. Not for the first time, he felt as if he should be able to make out a pattern to the plateaus. If he could see more of them, perhaps. What would it mean if there was an order to the chasms?