eyes opened wide with rage. We shall see, Shallan said. Brightness, Artmyrn said, red faced. Surely you dont believe these allegations! And how much were you going to charge her? Yalb asked. Ten emerald broams, Shallan said. For those seven books. Yalb laughed. And you didnt stand up and walk right out! You practically had my masters ears, and he offered you a better deal than that! Please, Brightness, return with me. Were ready to Ten was just an opening figure, Artmyrn said. I didnt expect her to take them. He looked at Shallan. Of course, eight . Yalb laughed again. Im sure we have those same books, Brightness. Ill bet my master gives them to you for two. Artmyrn grew even more red-faced, muttering. Brightness, surely you wouldnt patronize someone so crass as to send a servant into someone elses shop to steal his customers! Perhaps I would, Shallan said. At least he didnt insult my intelligence. Artmyrns wife glared at her husband, and the man grew even more red in the face. Two emerald, three sapphire. That is as low as I can go. If you want cheaper than that, then buy from that scoundrel Barmest. The books will probably be missing pages, though. Shallan hesitated, glancing at Yalb; he was caught up in his role, bowing and scraping. She caught his eyes, and he just kind of gave a shrug. Ill do it, she said to Artmyrn, prompting a groan from Yalb. He slunk away with a curse from Artmyrns wife. Shallan rose and counted out the spheres; the emerald broams she retrieved from her safepouch. Soon, she walked from the shop bearing a heavy canvas bag. She walked down the steep street, and found Yalb lounging beside a lamppost. She smiled as he took the bag from her. How did you know what a fair price for a book was? she asked. Fair price? he said, slinging the bag over his shoulder. For a book? Ive no idea. I just figured hed be trying to take you for as much as he could. Thats why I asked around for who his biggest rival was and came back to help get him to be more reasonable. It was that obvious Id let myself be swindled? she asked with a blush, the two of them walking out of the side street. Yalb chuckled. Just a little. Anyway, conning men like him is almost as much fun as cheating guards. You probably could have gotten him down further by actually leaving with me, then coming back later to give him another