safe city like Kharbranth hides dangers. Keep your wits about you. I should think Id prefer my wits inside my skull, Captain, she replied, carefully stepping onto the gangplank. If I keep them about me instead, then someone has gotten entirely too close to my head with a cudgel. The captain laughed, waving her farewell as she made her way down the gangplank, holding the railing with her freehand. Like all Vorin women, she kept her left handher safehandcovered, exposing only her freehand. Common darkeyed women would wear a glove, but a woman of her rank was expected to show more modesty than that. In her case, she kept her safehand covered by the oversized cuff of her left sleeve, which was buttoned closed. The dress was of a traditional Vorin cut, formfitting through the bust, shoulders, and waist, with a flowing skirt below. It was blue silk with chull-shell buttons up the sides, and she carried her satchel by pressing it to her chest with her safehand while holding the railing with her freehand. She stepped off the gangplank into the furious activity of the docks, messengers running this way and that, women in red coats tracking cargos on ledgers. Kharbranth was a Vorin kingdom, like Alethkar and like Shallans own Jah Keved. They werent pagans here, and writing was a feminine art; men learned only glyphs, leaving letters and reading to their wives and sisters. She hadnt asked, but she was certain Captain Tozbek could read. Shed seen him holding books; it had made her uncomfortable. Reading was an unseemly trait in a man. At least, men who werent ardents. You wanna ride? Yalb asked her, his rural Thaylen dialect so thick she could barely make out the words. Yes, please. He nodded and rushed off, leaving her on the docks, surrounded by a group of parshmen who were laboriously moving wooden crates from one pier to another. Parshmen were thick-witted, but they made excellent workers. Never complaining, always doing as they were told. Her father had preferred them to regular slaves. Were the Alethi really fighting parshmen out on the Shattered Plains? That seemed so odd to Shallan. Parshmen didnt fight. They were docile and practically mute. Of course, from what shed heard, the ones out on the Shattered Plainsthe Parshendi, they were calledwere physically different from regular parshmen. Stronger, taller, keener of mind. Perhaps they werent really parshmen at all, but distant relatives of some kind. To her surprise, she could see signs of animal life all around the docks. A few skyeels undulated through the air, searching for rats or fish. Tiny crabs hid between cracks in the docks boards, and a cluster of haspers clung to the docks