but the later ones had come to him without gemstones. Another indication that they werent the simpleminded subhumans the lighteyes claimed they were. Theyd seen what he was doing, and even if they hadnt understood it, theyd countered it. He had enough Light to keep him from collapsing. But as the Alethi pushed back the Parshendi, Kaladin realized how timely their arrival had been. I need to be very careful with this, he thought. The storm within made him thirst for motion and attack, but using it drained his body. The more of it he used, and the faster he used it, the worse it was when he ran out. Alethi soldiers took up perimeter defense on both sides of the bridge, and the exhausted bridgemen fell back, many sitting down and holding wounds. Kaladin hurried over to them. Report! Three dead, Rock said grimly, kneeling beside bodies hed laid out. Malop, Earless Jaks, and Narm. Kaladin frowned in sorrow. Be glad the rest live, he told himself. It was easy to think. Hard to accept. How are the rest of you? Five more had serious wounds, but Rock and Lopen had seen to them. Those two were learning quite well from Kaladins instruction. There was little more Kaladin could do for the wounded. He glanced at Malops body. The man had taken an axe cut to the arm, severing it and splintering the bone. Hed died from blood loss. If Kaladin hadnt been fighting, he might have been able to No. No regrets for the moment. Pull back across, he said to the bridgemen, pointing. Teft, youre in command. Moash, you strong enough to stay with me? Sure am, Moash said, a grin on his bloody face. He looked excited, not exhausted. All three of the dead had been on his side, but he and the others had fought remarkably well. The other bridgemen retreated. Kaladin turned to inspect the Alethi soldiers. It was like looking into a triage tent. Every man had a wound of some sort. The ones at the center stumbled and limped. Those at the outsides still fought, their uniforms bloodied and torn. The retreat had dissolved into chaos. He made his way through the wounded, waving for them to cross the bridge. Some did as he said. Others stood about, looking dazed. Kaladin rushed up to one group that seemed better off than most. Whos in command here? It The soldiers face had been cut across the cheek. Brightlord Dalinar. Immediate command. Whos your captain? Dead, the man said. And my companylord. And his second. Stormfather, Kaladin thought. Across the bridge with you, he said, then