The flashes of light came from directly ahead. So transfixing. Brushing past a pretty gold-and red-haired woman who huddled frightened in a corner, Kaladin burst through a door. He had one brief glimpse of what lay beyond. A man stood over two corpses. His pale head shaved, his clothing white, the murderer held a long, thin sword in one hand. He looked up from his victims and almost seemed to see Kaladin. He had large Shin eyes. It was too late to see anything more. Kaladin blew out the window, throwing shutters wide and streaking into the night. More cities, mountains, and forests passed in a blur. At his advent, plants curled up their leaves, rockbuds closed their shells, and shrubs withdrew their branches. Before long, he neared the western ocean. C HILD OF T ANAVAST . C HILD OF H ONOR . C HILD OF ONE LONG SINCE DEPARTED . The sudden voice shook Kaladin; he floundered in the air. T HE O OATHPACT WAS SHATTERED . The booming sound made the stormwall itself vibrate. Kaladin hit the ground, separating from the storm. He skidded to a stop, feet throwing up sprays of water. Stormwinds crashed into him, but he was enough a part of them that they neither tossed nor shook him. M EN RIDE THE STORMS NO LONGER . The voice was thunder, crashing in the air. T HE O OATHPACT IS BROKEN , C HILD OF H ONOR . I dont understand! Kaladin screamed into the tempest. A face formed before him, the face he had seen before, the aged face as wide as the sky, its eyes full of stars. O DIUM COMES . M OST DANGEROUS OF ALL THE SIXTEEN . Y OU WILL NOW GO . Something blew against him. Wait! Kaladin said. Why is there so much war? Must we always fight? He wasnt sure why he asked. The questions simply came out. The storm rumbled, like a thoughtful aged father. The face vanished, shattering into droplets of water. More softly, the voice answered, O DIUM REIGNS . Kaladin gasped as he awoke. He was surrounded by dark figures, holding him down against the hard stone floor. He yelled, old reflexes taking over. Instinctively, he snapped his hands outward to the sides, each grabbing an ankle and jerking to pull two assailants off balance. They cursed, crashing to the ground. Kaladin used the moment to twist while