No caves, the woman said, joining him at the window. How would men make a hole in the rock ? With a Shardblade or a Soulcaster. Or even with basic miningthough that could be difficult, as the crem would seal up caverns and highstorm rains made for an extremely potent risk of flooding. Dalinar looked out the window again. Dark shapes moved in the moonlight; some were coming in their direction. He wavered, dizzy. Blood loss. Gritting his teeth, he steadied himself against the frame of the window. How long was this vision going to last? We need a river. Something to wash away the trail of our scent. Is there one nearby? The woman nodded, growing pale faced as she noticed the dark forms in the night. Get the girl, woman. The girl? Seeli, our daughter . And since when have you called me woman? Is Taffa so hard to say? Stormwinds, Heb, what has gotten into you? He shook his head, moving to the door and throwing it open, still carrying the poker. Bring the lamp. The light wont give us away; I dont think they can see. The woman obeyed, hurrying to collect Seelishe looked to be about six or seventhen followed Dalinar out, the clay lamps fragile flame quivering in the night. It looked a little like a slipper. The river? Dalinar asked. You know where I hit my head, Taffa, Dalinar said. Im dizzy. Its hard to think. The woman looked worried at that, but seemed to accept this answer. She pointed away from the village. Lets go, he said, moving out into the darkness. Are attacks by these beasts common? During Desolations, perhaps, but not in my life! Stormwinds, Heb. We need to get you to No, he said. We keep moving. They continued along a path, which ran up toward the back side of the wave formation. Dalinar kept glancing back at the village. How many people were dying below, murdered by those beasts from Damnation? Where were the landlords soldiers? Perhaps this village was too remote, too far from a citylords direct protection. Or perhaps things didnt work that way in this era, this place. Ill see the woman and child to the river, then Ill return to organize a resistance. If anyone is left. The thought seemed laughable. He had to use the poker to keep himself