reconsider and suppress them. Shallan cocked her head. The punishments were incompetent, Jasnah said. Used upon one such as yourself, they were actually encouragement. A game. How much would you have to say to earn a punishment? Could you say something so clever that your tutors missed the joke? Sitting in the corner just gave you more time to compose retorts. But its unseemly for a young woman to speak as I so often do. The only unseemly thing is to not channel your intelligence usefully. Consider. You have trained yourself to do something very similar to what annoys you in the scholars: cleverness without thought behind itintelligence, one might say, without a foundation of proper consideration. Jasnah turned a page. Errorgant, wouldnt you say? Shallan blushed. I prefer my wards to be clever, Jasnah said. It gives me more to work with. I should bring you to court with me. I suspect that Wit, at least, would find you amusingif only because your apparent natural timidity and your clever tongue make such an intriguing combination. Yes, Brightness. Please, just remember that a womans mind is her most precious weapon. It must not be employed clumsily or prematurely. Much like the aforementioned knife to the back, a clever gibe is most effective when it is unanticipated. Im sorry, Brightness. It wasnt an admonition, Jasnah said, turning a page. Simply an observation. I make them on occasion: Those books are musty. The sky is blue today. My ward is a smart-lipped reprobate. Shallan smiled. Now, tell me what youve discovered. Shallan grimaced. Not much, Brightness. Or should I say too much? Each writer has her own theories on why the Parshendi killed your father. Some claim he must have insulted them at the feast that night. Others say that the entire treaty was a ruse, intended to get the Parshendi close to him. But that makes little sense, as they had much better opportunities earlier. And the Assassin in White? Jasnah asked. A true anomaly, Shallan said. The undertexts are filled with commentary about him. Why would the Parshendi hire an outside assassin? Did they fear they could not accomplish the job themselves? Or perhaps they didnt hire him, and were framed. Many think that is unlikely, considering that the Parshendi took credit for the murder.