Storm off! Moash snapped, pulling his arm back. Kaladin punched Moash right in the gut, where he knew it would wind him. Moash gasped in shock, doubling over, and Kaladin stepped forward to grab him by the legs, slinging Moash over his shoulder. Kaladin almost toppled from the weight. Luckily, carrying bridges was harsh but effective strength training. Of course, few bridgemen survived long enough to benefit from it. It didnt help that there were unpredictable lulls between runs. That was part of the problem; the bridge crews spent most of their time staring at their feet or doing menial chores, then were expected to run for miles carrying a bridge. He carted the shocked Moash outside and set him down on the stone. The rest of the camp was awake, woodworkers arriving at the lumberyard, soldiers jogging to their breakfast or training. The other bridge crews, of course, were still asleep. They were often allowed to sleep late, unless they were on morning bridge duty. Kaladin left Moash and walked back into the low-ceilinged barrack. Ill do the same to each of you, if I have to. He didnt have to. The shocked bridgemen filed out into the light, blinking. Most stood bare-backed to the sunlight, wearing only knee-length trousers. Moash climbed to his feet, rubbing his stomach and glaring at Kaladin. Things are going to change in Bridge Four, Kaladin said. For one thing, there will be no more sleeping in. And what are we going to do instead? Sigzil demanded. He had dark brown skin and black hairthat meant he was Makabaki, from southwestern Roshar. He was the only bridgeman without a beard, and judging by his smooth accent, he was probably Azish or Emuli. Foreigners were common in bridge crewsthose who didnt fit in often made their way to the crem of an army. Excellent question, Kaladin said. We are going to train. Each morning before our daily chores, we will run the bridge in practice to build up our endurance. More than one of the mens expressions grew dark at this. I know what you are thinking, Kaladin said. Arent our lives hard enough? Shouldnt we be able to relax during the brief times we have for it? Yeah, said Leyten, a tall, stout man with curly hair. Thats right.  No , Kaladin snapped. Bridge runs exhaust us because we spend most of our days lounging. Oh, I know we have choresforaging in the chasms, cleaning latrines, scrubbing floors. But the soldiers dont expect us to work hard; they just want us busy. The work helps them ignore us. As your bridgeleader, my primary duty is to keep you alive. Theres not