Hasweth. The wife held up a thin green volume. I have to admit, Ive never had any of her work read to me. I didnt realize that there were any Shin philosophers of note. Shallan looked at the four books by Gabrathin. She had no idea which one she should take, so she avoided the question, pointing at the two collections he had mentioned first and the single volume by Shauka-daughter-Hasweth. A philosopher from distant Shin, where people lived in mud and worshipped rocks? The man who had killed Jasnahs father nearly six years before prompting the war against the Parshendi in Natanatanhad been Shin. The Assassin in White, they called him. I will take those three, Shallan said, along with the histories. Excellent! the merchant repeated. For buying so many, I will give you a fair discount. Let us say, ten emerald broams? Shallan nearly choked. An emerald broam was the largest denomination of sphere, worth a thousand diamond chips. Ten of them was more than her trip to Kharbranth had cost by several magnitudes! She opened her satchel, looking in at her money pouch. She had around eight emerald broams left. Shed have to take fewer of the books, obviously, but which ones? Suddenly, the door slammed open. Shallan jumped and was surprised to see Yalb standing there, holding his cap in his hands, nervous. He rushed to her chair, going down on one knee. She was too stunned to say anything. Why was he so worried? Brightness, he said, bowing his head. My master bids you return. Hes reconsidered his offer. Truly, we can take the price you offered. Shallan opened her mouth, but found herself stupefied. Yalb glanced at the merchant. Brightness, dont buy from this man. Hes a liar and a cheat. My master will sell you much finer books at a better price. Now, whats this? Artmyrn said, standing. How dare you! Who is your master? Barmest, Yalb said defensively. That rat. He sends a boy into my shop trying to steal my customer? Outrageous! She came to our shop first! Yalb said. Shallan finally recovered her wits. Stormfather! Hes quite the actor. You had your chance, she said to Yalb. Run along and tell your master that I refuse to be swindled. I will visit every bookshop in the city if that is what it takes to find someone reasonable. Artmyrn isnt reasonable, Yalb said, spitting to the side. The merchants