almost hidden, and was both strong and light. The craftsmen had sanded this length smooth, and it smelled of sawdust and musky sap. Kaladin? Syl asked, walking through the air then stepping onto the wood. You look distant. Its ironic how well they craft these bridges, he said. This armys carpenters are far more professional than its soldiers. That makes sense, she said. The craftsmen want to make bridges that last. The soldiers I listen to, they just want to get to the plateau, grab the gemheart, and get away. Its like a game to them. Thats astute. Youre getting better and better at observing us. She grimaced. I feel more like Im remembering things I once knew. Soon youll hardly be a spren at all. Youll be a little translucent philosopher. Well have to send you off to a monastery to spend your time in deep, important thoughts. Yes, she said, like how to best get the ardents there to accidentally drink a mixture that will turn his mouth blue. She smiled mischievously. Kaladin smiled back, but kept running his finger across the wood. He still didnt understand why they wouldnt let bridgemen carry shields. Nobody would give him a straight answer on the question. They use makam because its strong enough for its weight to support a heavy cavalry charge, he said. We should be able to use this. They deny us shields, but we already carry one on our shoulders. But how would they react if you try that? Kaladin stood. I dont know, but I also dont have any other choice. Trying this would be a risk. A huge risk. But hed run out of nonrisky ideas days ago. We can hold it here, Kaladin said, pointing for Rock, Teft, Skar, and Moash. They stood beside a bridge turned up on its side, its underbelly exposed. The bottom was a complicated construction, with eight rows of three positions accommodating up to twenty-four men directly underneath, then sixteen sets of handleseight on each sidefor sixteen more men on the outside. Forty men, running shoulder to shoulder, if they had a full complement. Each position underneath the bridge had an indentation for the bridgemans head, two curved blocks of wood to rest on his shoulders, and two rods for handholds. The bridgemen wore shoulder pads, and those who were shorter wore