sure I want to see my father change. Not anymore. Toral frowned. Last week I know, Adolin said. That was before I saw him rescue Sadeas. Every time I start to forget how amazing my father is, he does something to prove me one of the ten fools. It happened when Elhokar was in danger too. Its like my father only acts like that when he really cares about something. You imply that he doesnt really care about the war, Adolin dear, Danlan said. No, Adolin said. Just that the lives of Elhokar and Sadeas might be more important than killing Parshendi. The others took that for an explanation, moving on toward other topics. But Adolin found himself circling the thought. He felt unsettled lately. Being wrong about Sadeas was one cause; the chance that they might actually be able to prove the visions right or wrong was another. Adolin felt trapped. Hed pushed his father to confront his own sanity, and nowby what their last conversation had establishedhe had all but agreed to accept his fathers decision to step down if the visions proved false. Everyone hates being wrong, Adolin thought. Except my father said hed rather be wrong, if it would be better for Alethkar. Adolin doubted many lighteyes would rather be proven mad than right. Perhaps, Eshava was saying. But that doesnt change all of his foolish restrictions. I wish he would step down. Adolin started. What? What was that? Eshava glanced at him. Nothing. Just seeing if you were attending the conversation, Adolin. No, Adolin said. Tell me what you were saying. She shrugged, looking at Toral. Toral leaned forward. You dont think the warcamps are ignoring what happens to your father during highstorms, Adolin. Word is that he should abdicate because of it. That would be foolish, Adolin said firmly. Considering how much success hes showing in battle. Stepping down would be far too much of an overreaction, Danlan agreed. Though, Adolin, I do wish you could get your father to relax all of these foolish restrictions our camp is under. You and the other Kholin men would be able to truly join society again. Ive tried, he said, checking the position of the sun. Trust me. And, unfortunately, I have a duel to prepare for. If youll excuse me. Some more of Sadeass sycophants? Jakamav asked.