considered suspect, and sometimes a moneylender would have to be brought in to judge the authenticity of the gemstone. She kept the most valuable spheres she had in her safepouch, of course, which was buttoned to the inside of her left sleeve. She handed the three chips to Yalb, who cocked his head. She nodded at the porter, blushing, realizing that shed reflexively used Yalb like a master-servant intermediary. Would he be offended? He laughed and stood up stiffly, as if imitating a master-servant, paying the porter with a mock stern expression. The porter laughed, bowed to Shallan, then pulled his cart away. This is for you, Shallan said, taking out a ruby mark and handing it to Yalb. Brightness, this is too much! Its partially out of thanks, she said, but is also to pay you to stay here and wait for a few hours, in case I return. Wait a few hours for a firemark? Thats wages for a weeks sailing! Then it should be enough to make certain you dont wander off. Ill be right here! Yalb said, giving her an elaborate bow that was surprisingly well-executed. Shallan took a deep breath and strode up the steps toward the Conclaves imposing entrance. The carved rock really was remarkablethe artist in her wanted to linger and study it, but she didnt dare. Entering the large building was like being swallowed. The hallway inside was lined with Stormlight lamps that shone with white light. Diamond broams were probably set inside them; most buildings of fine construction used Stormlight to provide illumination. A broam the highest denomination of sphereglowed with about the same light as several candles. Their light shone evenly and softly on the many attendants, scribes, and lighteyes moving through the hallway. The building appeared to be constructed as one broad, high, and long tunnel, burrowed into the rock. Grand chambers lined the sides, and subsidiary corridors branched off the central grand promenade. She felt far more comfortable than she had outdoors. This place with its bustling servants, its lesser brightlords and brightladieswas familiar. She raised her freehand in a sign of need, and sure enough, a master-servant in a crisp white shirt and black trousers hurried over to her. Brightness? he asked, speaking her native Veden, likely because of the color of her hair. I seek Jasnah Kholin, Shallan said. I have word that she is within these walls. The master-servant bowed crisply. Most master-servants prided themselves