The nearby bridgemen looked to him with surprise, but he ignored them, limping across the plateau until he found the corpse of a bridgeman who still had his vest and shoes. It was the leathery-faced man who had been so kind to him, dead with an arrow through the neck. Kaladin ignored those shocked eyes, staring blankly into the sky, and harvested the mans clothingleather vest, leather sandals, lacing shirt stained red with blood. Kaladin felt disgusted with himself, but he wasnt going to count on Gaz giving him clothing. Kaladin sat down and used the cleaner parts of the shirt to change his improvised bandages, then put on the vest and sandals, trying to keep from moving too much. A breeze now blew, carrying away the scents of blood and the sounds of soldiers calling to one another. The cavalry was already forming up, as if eager to return. A name, the windspren said, walking through the air to stand beside his face. She was in the shape of a young woman, complete with flowing skirt and delicate feet. Sylphrena. Sylphrena, Kaladin repeated, tying on the sandals. Syl, the spirit said. She cocked her head. Thats amusing. It appears that I have a nickname. Congratulations. Kaladin stood up again, wobbling. To the side, Gaz stood with hands on hips, shield tied to his back. You, he said, pointing at Kaladin. He then gestured to the bridge. Youve got to be kidding, Kaladin said, looking as the remnants of the bridge crewfewer than half of their previous number remainedgathered around the bridge. Either carry or stay behind, Gaz said. He seemed angry about something. I was supposed to die, Kaladin realized. Thats why he didnt care if I had a vest or sandals. I was at the front. Kaladin was the only one on the first row who had lived. Kaladin nearly sat down and let them leave him. But dying of thirst on a lonely plateau was not the way hed choose to go. He stumbled over to the bridge. Dont worry, said one of the other bridgemen. Theyll let us go slow this time, take lots of breaks. And well have a few soldiers to helptakes at least twenty-five men to lift a bridge. Kaladin sighed, getting into place as some unfortunate soldiers joined them. Together, they heaved the bridge into the air. It was terribly heavy, but they managed it, somehow. Kaladin walked, feeling numb. Hed thought that there was nothing more life could do to him, nothing worse than the slaves brand with a shash , nothing