Theyd already begun heating a knife. Good. Kal took the knife, burning it into the wound, releasing the sharply pungent smell of scorched flesh. A cool wind blew across them, carrying it away. Kals hands stopped shaking. He knew what to do. He moved with skill that surprised even him, perfectly cauterizing, as his training took control. He still needed to tie off the arterya cauterization might not hold on an artery this largebut the two together should work. When he was done, the bleeding had stopped. He sat back, smiling. And then he noticed that Miasals head wound wasnt bleeding either. Her chest wasnt moving. No! Harl fell to his knees. No! Do something! I Kal said. Hed stopped the bleeding. Hed Hed lost her. He didnt know what to say, how to respond. A deep, terrible, sickness washed over him. Harl shoved him aside, wailing, Kal fell backward. He found himself shaking again as Harl clutched the corpse. Around them, the crowd was silent. An hour later, Kal sat on the steps in front of the surgery room, crying. It was a soft thing, his grief. A shake here. A few persistent tears, slipping down his cheeks. He sat with knees up, arms wrapped around his legs, trying to figure out how to stop hurting. Was there a salve to take away this pain? A bandage to stop the flow from his eyes? He should have been able to save her. Footsteps approached, and a shadow fell on him. Lirin knelt down beside him. I inspected your work, son. You did well. Im proud. I failed, Kal whispered. His clothing was stained red. Before hed washed the blood free of his hands, it had been scarlet. But soaked into his clothing, it was a duller reddish brown. Ive known men who practiced for hours and hours, yet still froze when confronted by a wounded person. Its harder when it takes you by surprise. You didnt freeze, you went to her, administered help. And you did it well. I dont want to be a surgeon, Kal said. Im terrible at it. Lirin sighed, rounding the steps, sitting down beside his son. Kal, this happens. Its unfortunate, but you couldnt have done more. That little body lost blood too quickly.