become? The final piece fell into place inside of him, the final cornerstone, and he found that he was no longer worried. The confusion was gone. He knew what to do, at long last. No more questions. No more uncertainty. He reached up, gripping Adolins arm. Thank you. Adolin nodded curtly. He was still angry, Dalinar could see, but he chose to follow Dalinarand part of following a leader was supporting him even when the battle turned against him. Then they released one another and Dalinar turned to the soldiers around them. It is time for us to fight, he said, voice growing louder. And we do so not because we seek the glory of men, but because the other options are worse. We follow the Codes not because they bring gain, but because we loathe the people we would otherwise become. We stand here on this battlefield alone because of who we are. The members of the Cobalt Guard standing in a ring began to turn, one at a time, looking toward him. Beyond them, reserve soldierslighteyed and dark gathered closer, eyes terrified, but faces resolute. Death is the end of all men! Dalinar bellowed. What is the measure of him once he is gone? The wealth he accumulated and left for his heirs to squabble over? The glory he obtained, only to be passed on to those who slew him? The lofty positions he held through happenstance? No. We fight here because we understand. The end is the same. It is the path that separates men. When we taste that end, we will do so with our heads held high, eyes to the sun. He held out a hand, summoning Oathbringer. I am not ashamed of what I have become, he shouted, and found it to be true. It felt so strange to be free of guilt. Other men may debase themselves to destroy me. Let them have their glory. For I will retain mine! The Shardblade formed, dropping into his hand. The men did not cheer, but they did stand taller, straight-backed. A little of the terror retreated. Adolin shoved his helm on, his own Blade appearing in his hand, coated in condensation. He nodded. Together they charged back into the battle. And so I die, Dalinar thought, crashing into the Parshendi ranks. There he found peace. An unexpected emotion on the field of battle, but all the more welcome for that. He did, however, discover one regret: He was leaving poor Renarin as Kholin highprince, in over his head and surrounded by enemies grown fat on the flesh of his father and brother. I never did deliver that Shardplate I promised him, Dalinar thought. He will