Dalinar nodded, tapping the table with his finger. Back then, even I thought of us as separate princedoms. If we had attacked the center individually, each army alone, wed have been surrounded and destroyed. But if all ten armies went together? With our Soulcasters to provide food, with the soldiers carrying portable shelters to set up for highstorms? Over a hundred and fifty thousand troops? Let the Parshendi try to surround us then. With the Soulcasters, we could even create wood for bridges if we had to. That would take a lot of trust, Adolin said hesitantly. He glanced down the high table, toward Sadeas. His expression darkened. Wed be stuck out there, together and isolated, for days. If the highprinces started squabbling midmarch, it could be disastrous. Well get them to work together first, Dalinar said. Were close, closer than weve ever been. Six years, and not a single highprince has allowed his soldiers to skirmish against those of another. Except back in Alethkar. There, they still fought meaningless battles over land rights or old offenses. It was ridiculous, but stopping the Alethi from warring was like trying to stop the winds from blowing. Adolin was nodding. Its a good plan, Father. Far better than talk of retreating. They wont like giving up the plateau skirmishes, though. They like the game of it. I know. But if I can get one or two of them to start pooling soldiers and resources for plateau assaults, it might be a step toward what well need for the future. Id still rather find a way to lure a large force of Parshendi out onto the Plains and meet them on one of the larger plateaus, but I havent yet been able to figure out how to do that. Either way, our separate armies will need to learn to work together. And what do we do about what people are saying about you? Ill release an official refutation, Dalinar said. Ill have to be careful not to make it sound like the king was in error, while also explaining the truth. Adolin sighed. An official refutation, Father? Yes. Why not fight a duel? Adolin asked, leaning in, sounding eager. Some stuffy pronouncement may explain your ideas, but it wont make people feel them. Pick someone who is naming you coward, challenge them, and remind everyone what a mistake it is to insult the Blackthorn! I cannot, Dalinar said. The Codes forbid it for one of my stature. Adolin probably shouldnt be dueling either, but Dalinar had not forced a complete prohibition on him. Dueling was his life. Well, that and the women he courted. Then charge me with the honor of our house, Adolin said. Ill duel them!