Doesnt the fight itself mean anything? Not if youre destined to die. He hung his head. Sigzils words echoed in his head. Life before death. Strength before weakness. Journey before destination. Kaladin looked up at the crack of sky. Like a faraway river of pure, blue water. Life before death. What did the saying mean? That men should seek life before seeking death? That was obvious. Or did it mean something else? That life came before death? Again, obvious. And yet the simple words spoke to him. Death comes, they whispered. Death comes to all. But life comes first. Cherish it. Death is the destination. But the journey, that is life. That is what matters. A cold wind blew through the corridor of stone, washing over him, bringing crisp, fresh scents and blowing away the stink of rotting corpses. Nobody cared for the bridgemen. Nobody cared for those at the bottom, with the darkest eyes. And yet, that wind seemed to whisper to him over and over. Life before death. Life before death. Live before you die. His foot hit something. He bent down and picked it up. A small rock. He could barely make it out in the darkness. He recognized what was happening to him, this melancholy, this sense of despair. It had taken him often when hed been younger, most frequently during the weeks of the Weeping, when the sky was hidden by clouds. During those times, Tien had cheered him up, helped him pull out of his despair. Tien had always been able to do that. Once hed lost his brother, hed dealt with these periods of sadness more awkwardly. Hed become the wretch, not caringbut also not despairing. It had seemed better not to feel at all, as opposed to feeling pain. Im going to fail them, Kaladin thought, squeezing his eyes shut. Why try? Wasnt he a fool to keep grasping as he did? If only he could win once. That would be enough. As long as he could believe that he could help someone, as long as he believed that some paths led to places other than darkness, he could hope. You promised yourself you would try one last time, he thought. They arent dead yet. Still alive. For now. There was one thing he hadnt tried. Something hed been too frightened of. Every time hed tried it in the past, hed lost everything. The wretch seemed to be standing before him. He meant release. Apathy. Did Kaladin really want to go back to that? It was a false refuge. Being that man hadnt protected him. It had only led him deeper and deeper until taking his own life had seemed the better way.