obviously wouldnt make sense. I see now. What? I will explain as I train you, Jasnah said, handing back the sheet. You will need a greater foundation before you can grasp it. Suffice it to say that each Radiants abilities were tied to the spren. Wait, Radiants ? But I will explain, Jasnah said. But first, we must speak of the Voidbringers. Shallan nodded. You think theyll return, dont you? Jasnah studied her. What makes you say that? The legends say the Voidbringers came a hundred times to try to destroy mankind, Shallan continued. I read some of your notes. You what ? I was looking for information on Soulcasting, Shallan confessed. Jasnah sighed. Well, I suppose it is the least of your crimes. I cant understand, Shallan said. Why are you bothering with these stories of myths and shadows? Other scholarsscholars I know you respectconsider the Voidbringers to be a fabrication. Yet you chase stories from rural farmers and write them down in your notebook. Why, Jasnah? Why do you have faith in this when you reject things that are so much more plausible? Jasnah looked over her sheets of paper. Do you know the real difference between me and a believer, Shallan? Shallan shook her head. It strikes me that religionin its essenceseeks to take natural events and ascribe supernatural causes to them. I, however, seek to take supernatural events and find the natural meanings behind them. Perhaps that is the final dividing line between science and religion. Opposite sides of a card. So you think The Voidbringers had a natural, real-world correlate, Jasnah said firmly. Im certain of it. Something caused the legends. What was it? Jasnah handed Shallan a page of notes. These are the best Ive been able to find. Read them. Tell me what you think. Shallan scanned the page. Some of the quotesor at least the concepts were familiar to her from what shed read already. Suddenly dangerous. Like a calm day that became a tempest. They were real, Jasnah repeated. Beings of ash and fire. We fought with them, Jasnah said. We fought so often that men began to speak of the creatures in metaphor. A hundred battlesten tenfolds