property here. Do not press me on this, Sadeas, Dalinar said. Suddenly, the tension was back. Dalinars officers lowered hands to swords, and his spearmen perked up, gripping the hafts of their weapons. Do not press you? Sadeas asked. What kind of threat is that? Leave my camp. Its obvious that there is nothing more between us. If you try to steal my property, I will have every justification in attacking you. Dalinar stood in place. He looked confident, though Kaladin saw no reason why. And another promise dies, Kaladin thought, turning away. In the end, for all his good intentions, this Dalinar Kholin was the same as the others. Behind Kaladin, men gasped in surprise. Kaladin froze, then spun around. Dalinar Kholin had summoned his massive Shardblade; it dripped beads of water from having just been summoned. His armor steamed faintly, Stormlight rising from the cracks. Sadeas stumbled back, eyes wide. His honor guard drew their swords. Adolin Kholin reached his hand to the side, apparently beginning to summon his own weapon. Dalinar took one step forward, then drove his Blade point-first into the middle of the blackened glyph on the stone. He took a step back. For the bridgemen, he said. Sadeas blinked. Muttering voices fell silent, and the people on the field seemed too stunned, even, to breathe.  What?  Sadeas asked. The Blade, Dalinar said, firm voice carrying in the air. In exchange for your bridgemen. All of them. Every one you have in camp. They become mine, to do with as I please, never to be touched by you again. In exchange, you get the sword. Sadeas looked down at the Blade, incredulous. This weapon is worth fortunes. Cities, palaces, kingdoms . Do we have a deal? Dalinar asked. Father, no! Adolin Kholin said, his own Blade appearing in his hand. You Dalinar raised a hand, silencing the younger man. He kept his eyes on Sadeas.  Do we have a deal?  he asked, each word sharp. Kaladin stared, unable to move, unable to think. Sadeas looked at the Shardblade, eyes full of lust. He glanced at Kaladin, hesitated just briefly, then reached and grabbed the Blade by the hilt.  Take the storming creatures. Dalinar nodded curtly, turning away from Sadeas. Lets go, he said to his