still. Something felt wrong. The building creaked in the wind. It wasnt well built; the plank beneath Dalinars hand was loose, and he was tempted to push it free so he could peek out. But the stillness, the terrified childThere was an oddly putrid scent in the air. Something scratched, ever so softly, at the barns far wall. Like a finger-nail being drawn across a wooden tabletop. The girl whimpered, and the scraping sound stopped. Dalinar held his breath, heart beating furiously. Instinctively, he held his hand out to summon his Shardblade, but nothing happened. It would never come during the visions. The far wall of the building exploded inward. Splintered wood flew through the darkness as a large shape burst in. Lit only by moonglow and starlight from outside, the black thing was bigger than an axehound. He couldnt make out details, but it seemed to have an unnatural wrongness to its form. The girl screamed, and Dalinar cursed, grabbing her with one arm and rolling to the side as the black thing leaped for them. It nearly got the child, but Dalinar whipped her out of the creatures path. Breathless with terror, her scream cut off. Dalinar spun, pushing the girl behind him. His side hit a stack of sacks filled with grain as he edged away. The barn fell silent. Salass violet light shone in the sky outside, but the small moon wasnt bright enough to illuminate the barns interior, and the creature had moved into a shadowed recess. He couldnt see much of it. It seemed part of the shadows. Dalinar tensed, fists forward. It made a soft wheezing noise, eerie and faintly reminiscent of rhythmic whispering. Breathing? Dalinar thought. No. Its sniffing for us. The thing darted forward. Dalinar whipped a hand to the side and grabbed one of the grain sacks, pulling it in front of himself. The beast struck the sack, its teeth ripping into it, and Dalinar pulled, tearing the coarse fabric and flinging a fragrant cloud of dusty lavis grain into the air. Then he stepped to the side and kicked the beast as hard as he could. The creature felt too soft under his foot, as if hed kicked a waterskin. The blow knocked it to the ground, and it made a hissing sound. Dalinar flung the bag and its remaining contents upward, filling the air with more dried lavis and dust. The beast scrambled to its feet and twisted around, smooth skin reflecting moonlight. It seemed disoriented. Whatever it was, it hunted by smell, and the dust in the air confused it. Dalinar grabbed the girl and threw her over his shoulder, then dashed past the confused creature, barreling through the hole in