That Shardbearer couldnt be talking to him. Dalinar had been hit too hard on the head. He must be delusional. What was that disturbance in the ring of Parshendi watchers? Sadeas, Dalinar found himself thinking, his mind confused. Hes come to rescue me, as I rescued him. Unite them. Hell come, Dalinar thought. I know he will. I will gather them. The Parshendi were yelling, moving, twisting. Suddenly, a figure exploded through them. Not Sadeas at all. A young man with a strong face and long, curling black hair. He carried a spear. And he was glowing. What? Dalinar thought, dazed. Kaladin landed in the open circle. The two Shardbearers were at the center, one on the ground, Stormlight trailing faintly from his body. Too faintly. Considering the number of cracks, his gemstones must be almost spent. The othera Parshendi, judging by the size and shape of the limbswas standing over the fallen one. Great, Kaladin thought, dashing forward before the Parshendi soldiers could collect their wits and attack him. The Parshendi Shardbearer was bent down, focused on Dalinar. The Parshendis Plate was leaking Stormlight through a large fissure in the leg. Somemory flashing back to the time he rescued AmaramKaladin got in close and slammed his spear into the crack. The Shardbearer screamed and dropped his Blade in surprise. It puffed to mist. Kaladin whipped his spear free and dodged backward. The Shardbearer swung toward him with a gauntleted fist, but missed. Kaladin jumped in and throwing his full strength behind the blowrammed his spear into the cracked leg armor again. The Shardbearer screamed even louder, stumbling, then fell to his knees. Kaladin tried to pull his spear free, but the man crumpled on top of it, snapping the shaft. Kaladin dodged back, now facing a ring of Parshendi, empty-handed, Stormlight streaming from his body. Silence. And then, they began speaking again, the words theyd said before. Neshua Kadal! They passed it among themselves, whispering, looking confused. Then they began to chant a song hed never heard before.