bridges. Itll be hard to outrun them with the side carry, but its the only thing I can think of. If it doesnt work, Ill be in front, so Ill be the first to drop. If I die, move the bridge to shoulder-carry. Weve practiced doing that. Then youll be rid of me. The bridgemen were silent. What if we dont want to be rid of you? long-faced Natam asked. Kaladin smiled. Then run swiftly and follow my lead. Im going to turn us unexpectedly during the run; be ready to change directions. He went back to the bridge. The common soldiers were across, and the lighteyesincluding Sadeas in his ornate Shardplatewere riding over the span. Kaladin and Bridge Four followed, then pulled the bridge behind them. They shoulder-carried it to the front of the army and put it down, waiting for the other bridges to get in place. Lopen and the other two water-carriers hung back with Gaz; it looked like they wouldnt get into trouble for not running. That was a small blessing. Kaladin felt sweat bead on his forehead. He could just barely make out the Parshendi ranks ahead, on the other side of the chasm. Men of black and crimson, shortbows held at the ready, arrows nocked. The enormous slope of the Tower rose behind them. Kaladins heart beat faster. Anticipationspren sprung up around members of the army, but not his team. To their credit, there werent any fearspren either not that they didnt feel fear, they just werent as panicked as the other bridge crews, so the fearspren went there instead. Care, Tukks seemed to whisper at him from the past. The key to fighting isnt lack of passion, its controlled passion. Care about winning. Care about those you defend. You have to care about something. I care, Kaladin thought. Storm me as a fool, but I do. Bridges up! Gazs voice echoed across the front lines, repeating the order given him by Lamaril. Bridge Four moved, quickly turning the bridge on its side and hoisting it up. The shorter men made a line, holding the bridge up to their right, with the taller men forming a bunched-up line behind them, reaching through and lifting or reaching high and steadying the bridge. Lamaril gave them a harsh look, and Kaladins breath caught in his throat. Gaz stepped up and whispered something to Lamaril. The nobleman nodded slowly, and said nothing. The assault call sounded. Bridge Four charged. From behind them, arrows flew in a wave over the bridge crews heads, arcing down toward the Parshendi. Kaladin ran, jaw clenched. He had trouble