I curse occasionally too. I hadnt noticed. Youre a very curious ardent, Kabsal. Youd be surprised. Were not nearly as stuffy a bunch as we seem. Well, except Brother Habsant; he spends so much time staring at the rest of us. He hesitated. Actually, now I think about it, he might actually be stuffed. I dont know that Ive ever seen him move. Were getting distracted. Werent you trying to recruit me to your devotary? Yes. And its not so uncommon as you think. All of the devotaries engage in it. We do a lot of frowning at one another for our profound lack of ethics. He leaned forward again, growing more serious. My devotary has relatively few members, as we dont have as much exposure as others. So whenever someone seeking knowledge comes to the Palanaeum, we take it upon ourselves to inform them. Recruit them. Let them see what it is they are missing. He took a bite of his bread and jam. In the Devotary of Purity, did they teach you about the nature of the Almighty? The divine prism, with the ten facets representing the Heralds? They touched on it, she said. Mostly we talked about achieving my goals ofwell, purity. Somewhat boring, Ill admit, since there wasnt much chance for im purity on my part. Kabsal shook his head. The Almighty gives everyone talentsand when we pick a Calling that capitalizes on them, we are worshipping him in the most fundamental way. A devotaryand its ardentsshould help nurture that, encouraging you to set and achieve goals of excellence. He waved to the books stacked on the desk. This is what your devotary should be helping you with, Shallan. History, logic, science, art. Being honest and good is important, but we should be working harder to encourage the natural talents of people, rather than forcing them to adapt to the Glories and Callings we feel are most important. That is a reasonable argument, I guess. Kabsal nodded, looking thoughtful Is it any wonder a woman like Jasnah Kholin turned away from that? Many devotaries encourage women to leave difficult studies of theology to the ardents. If only Jasnah had been able to see the true beauty of our doctrine. He smiled, digging a thick book out of his bread basket. I really had hoped, originally, to be able to show her what I mean. I doubt shed react well to that. Perhaps, he said idly, hefting the tome. But to be the one who finally convinced her! Brother Kabsal, that sounds almost like youre seeking distinction.