To speak of what might be is forbidden, the voice said. To speak of what was depends on perspective. But I will try to help. Then give me more than vague answers! Taffa regarded him, somber. Somehow, by starlight alone, he could make out her brown eyes. There was something deep, something daunting, hiding behind them. At least tell me this, Dalinar said, grasping for a specific question to ask. I have trusted Highprince Sadeas, but my sonAdolinthinks I am a fool to do so. Should I continue to trust Sadeas? Yes, the being said. This is important. Do not let strife consume you. Be strong. Act with honor, and honor will aid you. Finally , Dalinar thought. Something concrete. He heard voices. The dark landscape around Dalinar grew vague. No! He reached for the woman. Dont send me back yet. What should I do about Elhokar, and the war? I will give you what I can. The voice was growing indistinct. I am sorry for not giving more. What kind of answer is that? Dalinar bellowed. He shook himself, struggling. Hands held him. Where had they come from? He cursed, batting them away, twisting, trying to break free. Then he froze. He was in the barrack at the Shattered Plains, soft rain rattling on the roof. The bulk of the storm had passed. A group of soldiers held Dalinar down while Renarin watched with concern. Dalinar grew still, mouth open. He had been yelling. The soldiers looked uncomfortable, glancing at each other, not meeting his gaze. If it was like before, hed have acted out his role in the vision, speaking in gibberish, flailing around. My mind is clear now, Dalinar said. Its all right. You can all let me go. Renarin nodded to the others, and they hesitantly released him. Renarin tried to make some stuttering excuses, telling them that his father was simply eager for combat. It didnt sound very convincing. Dalinar retreated to the back of the barrack, sitting down on the floor between two rolled up bedrolls, just breathing in and out and thinking. He trusted the visions, yet his life in the warcamps had been difficult enough lately without people presuming him mad. Act with honor, and honor will aid you. The vision had told him to trust Sadeas. But hed never be able to explain that to Adolinwho not only hated Sadeas, but thought the visions were delusions from Dalinars mind. The only thing to do was keep going as he had. And find a way, somehow, to get the highprinces to work together.