clasping her safehand through the fabric of her cuff, breathing quietly. Angry people unsettled her. She couldnt help but think of her father in one of his tirades, couldnt help but hear screams, bellows, and whimpers. Was she weak because confrontation unsettled her so? She felt that she was. Foolish, idiot girl, she thought, a few painspren crawling out of the wall near her head. What made you think you could do this? Youve only set foot off your family grounds a half-dozen times during your life. Idiot, idiot, idiot! She had persuaded her brothers to trust her, to put hope in her ridiculous plan. And now what had she done? Wasted six months during which their enemies circled closer. Brightness Davar? asked a hesitant voice. Shallan looked up, realizing shed been so wrapped in her misery that she hadnt seen the servant approach. He was a younger man, wearing an all black uniform, no emblem on the breast. Not a master-servant, but perhaps one in training. Brightness Kholin would like to speak with you. The young man gestured back down the hallway. To berate me further? Shallan thought with a grimace. But a highlady like Jasnah got what she wanted. Shallan forced herself to stop shaking, then stood. At least shed been able to keep the tears away; she hadnt ruined her makeup. She followed the servant back to the lit alcove, satchel clutched before her like a shield on the battlefield. Jasnah Kholin sat in the chair Shallan had been using, stacks of books on the table. Jasnah was rubbing her forehead with her freehand. The Soulcaster rested against the back of her skin, the smokestone dark and cracked. Though Jasnah looked fatigued, she sat with perfect posture, her fine silk dress covering her feet, her safehand held across her lap. Jasnah focused on Shallan, lowering her freehand. I should not have treated you with such anger, Miss Davar, she said in a tired voice. You were simply showing persistence, a trait I normally encourage. Storms alight, Ive oft been guilty of stubbornness myself. Sometimes we find it hardest to accept in others that which we cling to in ourselves. My only excuse can be that I have put myself under an unusual amount of strain lately. Shallan nodded in gratitude, though she felt terribly awkward. Jasnah turned to look out of the balcony into the dark space of the Veil. I know what people say of me. I should hope that I am not as harsh as some say, though a woman could have far worse than a reputation for sternness. It can serve one well. Shallan had to forcibly keep herself from fidgeting. Should she withdraw?