Buildings were grouped by color, and that color seemed to indicate purpose. Shops selling the same items would be painted the same shadesviolet for clothing, green for foods. Homes had their own pattern, though Shallan couldnt interpret it. The colors were soft, with a washed-out, subdued tonality. Yalb walked alongside her cart, and the porter began to talk back toward her. Yalb translated, hands in the pockets of his vest. He says that the city is special because of the lait here. Shallan nodded. Many cities were built in laitsareas protected from the highstorms by nearby rock formations. Kharbranth is one of the most sheltered major cities in the world, Yalb continued, translating, and the bells are a symbol of that. Its said they were first erected to warn that a highstorm was blowing, since the winds were so soft that people didnt always notice. Yalb hesitated. Hes just saying things because he wants a big tip, Brightness. Ive heard that story, but I think its blustering ridiculous. If the winds blew strong enough to move bells, then peopled notice. Besides, people didnt notice it was raining on their blustering heads? Shallan smiled. Its all right. He can continue. The porter chatted on in his clipped voicewhat language was that, anyway? Shallan listened to Yalbs translation, drinking in the sights, sounds, andunfortunatelyscents. Shed grown up accustomed to the crisp smell of freshly dusted furniture and flatbread baking in the kitchens. Her ocean journey had taught her new scents, of brine and clean sea air. There was nothing clean in what she smelled here. Each passing alleyway had its own unique array of revolting stenches. These alternated with the spicy scents of street vendors and their foods, and the juxtaposition was even more nauseating. Fortunately, her porter moved into the central part of the roadway, and the stenches abated, though it did slow them as they had to contend with thicker traffic. She gawked at those they passed. Those men with gloved hands and faintly bluish skin were from Natanatan. But who were those tall, stately people dressed in robes of black? And the men with their beards bound in cords, making them rodlike? The sounds put Shallan in mind of the competing choruses of wild songlings near her home, only multiplied in variety and volume. A hundred voices called to one another, mingling with doors slamming, wheels rolling on stone, occasional skyeels crying. The ever-present bells tinkled in the background, louder when the wind blew. They were displayed in the windows of shops, hung from rafters. Each lantern pole along the street had a bell hung under the lamp, and her cart had a small silvery one at the very tip of its canopy. When she was