notation, they immediately freeze in their current state. Then they remain that way permanently, so far as I can tell. What does it mean? he asked. Im hoping youll be able to tell me. I have the figures. Youve got the imagination, dear one. He scratched at his beard, sitting back, and produced a bowl and spoon for himself. Hed sprinkled dried fruit over his portion; Geranid was half convinced hed joined the ardentia because of his sweet tooth. What happens if you erase the figures? he asked. The spren go back to being variable, she said. Length, shape, luminosity. He took a bite of his mush. Go into the other room. What? Just do it. Take your writing board. She sighed, standing up, joints popping. Was she getting that old? Starlight, but theyd spent a long time out on this island. She walked to the other room, where their cot was. What now? she called. Im going to measure the spren with your calipers, he called back. Ill take three measurements in a row. Only write down one of the figures I give you. Dont tell me which one youre writing down. All right, she called back. The window was open, and she looked out over a darkening, glassy expanse of water. The Reshi Sea wasnt as shallow as the Purelake, but it was quite warm most of the time, dotted with tropical islands and the occasional monster of a greatshell. Three inches, seven tenths, Ashir called. She didnt write down the figure. Two inches, eight tenths. She ignored the number this time too, but got her chalk ready to writeas quietly as possiblethe next numbers he called out. Two inches, three tenWow. What? she called. It stopped changing sizes. I assume you wrote down that third number? She frowned, walking back into their small living chamber. Ashirs hotplate sat on a low table to her right. After the Reshi style, there were no chairs, just cushions, and all the furniture was flat and long, rather than tall. She approached the hearth. One of the two flamespren danced about atop a log, shape changing and length flickering like the flames themselves. The other had taken on a far more stable shape. Its length no longer changed, though its