Whos in charge here? Dalinar asked. A scruffy civilian in brown trousers raised a nervous hand. Brightlord, how may we serve you? By relaxing for a little while, Dalinar said. Out with you. The worried workers scrambled out. Lighteyed officers gathered behind, confused by Dalinars actions. Dalinar gripped the haft of his warhammer in a gauntleted hand; the metal shaft was wrapped tightly with leather. Taking a deep breath, he leaped down into the half-finished ditch, lifted the hammer, then swung, slamming the weapon down against the rock. A powerful crack rang across the practice field, and a wave of shock ran up Dalinars arms. The Shardplate absorbed most of the recoil, and he left a large crack in the stones. He hefted and swung again, this time breaking free a large section of rock. Though it would have been difficult for two or three regular men to lift, Dalinar grabbed it with one hand and tossed it aside. It clattered across the stones. Where were the Shards for regular men? Why hadnt the ancients, who were so wise, created anything to help them? As Dalinar continued to work, beats of his hammer throwing chips and dust into the air, he easily did the work of twenty men. Shardplate could be used for so many things to ease the lives of workers and darkeyes across Roshar. It felt good to be working. To be doing something useful. Lately, he felt as if his efforts had been akin to running about in circles. The work helped him think. He was losing his thirst for battle. That worried him, as the Thrillthe enjoyment and longing for warwas part of what drove the Alethi as a people. The grandest of masculine arts was to become a great warrior, and the most important Calling was to fight. The Almighty himself depended on the Alethi to train themselves in honorable battle so that when they died, they could join the Heralds army and win back the Tranquiline Halls. And yet, thinking about killing was starting to sicken him. It had grown worse since that last bridge assault. What would happen next time he went into battle? He could not lead this way. That was a major reason that abdicating in favor of Adolin looked right. He continued to swing. Again and again, beating against the stones. Soldiers gathered above anddespite his ordersthe workers did not leave to relax. They watched, dumbfounded, as a Shardbearer did their work. Occasionally, he summoned his Blade and used it to cut the rock, slicing out sections before returning to the hammer to break them apart. He probably looked ridiculous. He couldnt do the work of all of the laborers