She glanced toward her safehand, and the pouch hidden inside. She felt more secure having the Soulcaster near. She hadnt yet dared try to use it. Shed been too nervous about the theft, and had worried about using the object near Jasnah. Now, however, she was in a nook deep within the maze, with only one curving entrance into her dead end. She stood up casually, looking around. No one else was in the gardens, and she was far enough inside that it would take minutes for anyone to get to her. Shallan sat back down, setting aside her drawing pad and pencil. I might as well see if I can figure out how to use it, she thought. Maybe theres no need to keep searching the Palanaeum for a solution. So long as she stood up and glanced about periodically, she could be certain she wouldnt be approached or seen by accident. She removed the forbidden device. It was heavy in her hand. Solid. Taking a deep breath, she looped the chains over her fingers and around her wrist, the gemstones set against the back of her hand. The metal was cold, the chains loose. She flexed her hand, pulling the fabrial tight. Shed anticipated a feeling of power. Prickles on her skin, perhaps, or a sense of strength and might. But there was nothing. She tapped the three gemstonesshed placed her smokestone into the third setting. Some other fabrials, like spanreeds, worked when you tapped the stones. But that was foolish, as shed never seen Jasnah do that. The woman just closed her eyes and touched something, Soulcasting it. Smoke, crystal, and fire were what this Soulcaster was best at. Only once had she seen Jasnah create anything else. Hesitant, Shallan took a piece of broken shalebark from the base of one of the plants. She held it up in her freehand, then closed her eyes. Become smoke! she commanded. Nothing happened. Become crystal! she commanded instead. She cracked an eye. There was no change. Fire. Burn! Youre fire! You She paused, realizing the stupidity of that. A mysteriously burned hand? No, that wouldnt be at all suspicious. Instead, she focused on crystal. She closed her eyes again, holding the image of a piece of quartz in her mind. She tried to will the shalebark to change. Nothing happened, so she just tried focusing, imagining the shalebark transforming. After a few minutes of failure, she tried making the pouch change instead, then tried the bench, then tried one of her hairs. Nothing worked. Shallan checked to make certain she was still alone, then sat down,