face. He took a deep breath, then nodded. Your timing isquite good, son. Adolin helped Dalinar back to his feet. I had to punch through the entire Parshendi army. No disrespect, Father, but what in the storms made you pull a stunt like that? The knowledge that you could handle the army if I fell, Dalinar said, clapping his son on the arm, their Plate clinking. Adolin caught sight of the back of Dalinars Shardplate, and his eyes opened wide. Bad? Dalinar asked. Looks like its held together with spit and twine, Adolin said. Youre leaking Light like a wineskin used for archery practice. Dalinar nodded, sighing. Already his Plate was feeling sluggish. Hed probably have to remove it before they returned to the camp, lest it freeze on him. To the side, several soldiers were pulling Sadeas free of his Plate. It was so far gone that the Light had stopped save for a few tiny wisps. It could be fixed, but it would be expensiveregenerating Shardplate generally shattered the gemstones it drew Light from. The soldiers pulled Sadeass helm off, and Dalinar was relieved to see his former friend blinking, looking disoriented but largely uninjured. He had a cut on his thigh where one of the Parshendi had gotten him with a sword, and a few scrapes on his chest. Sadeas looked up at Dalinar and Adolin. Dalinar stiffened, expecting recriminationthis had only happened because Dalinar had insisted on fighting with two armies on the same plateau. That had goaded the Parshendi into bringing another army. Dalinar should have set proper scouts to watch for that. Sadeas, however, smiled a wide grin. Stormfather, but that was close! How goes the battle? The Parshendi are routed, Adolin said. The last force resisting was the one around you. Our men are cutting the gemheart free at this moment. The day is ours. We win again! Sadeas said triumphantly. Dalinar, once in a while, it appears that senile old brain of yours can come up with a good idea or two! Were the same age, Sadeas. Dalinar noted as messengers approached, bearing reports from the rest of the battlefield. Spread the word, Sadeas proclaimed. Tonight, all my soldiers will feast as if they were lighteyes! He smiled as his soldiers helped him to his feet, and Adolin moved over to take the scout reports. Sadeas waved away the help insisting he could stand despite his wound, and began calling for his officers.