By going back, wed throw away our chance at freedom. The other bridgemen nodded at that. The rest had gathered, carrying weapons. It was time to go. Kaladin tried to squelch the feeling of despair inside him. This Dalinar Kholin was probably just like the others. Like Roshone, like Sadeas, like any number of other lighteyes. Pretending virtue but corrupted inside. But he has thousands of darkeyed soldiers with him, a part of him thought. Men who dont deserve this terrible fate. Men like my old spear crew . We owe them nothing, Kaladin whispered. He thought could see Dalinar Kholins banner, flying blue at the front of his army. You got them into this, Kholin. I wont let my men die for you. He turned his back on the Tower. Syl still stood beside him, facing eastward. It made his very soul twist in knots to see that look of despair on her face. Are windspren attracted to wind, she asked softly, or do they make it? I dont know, Kaladin said. Does it matter? Perhaps not. You see, Ive remembered what kind of spren I am. Is this the time for it, Syl? I bind things, Kaladin, she said, turning and meeting his eyes. I am honorspren. Spirit of oaths. Of promises. And of nobility. Kaladin could faintly hear the sounds of the battle. Or was that just his mind, searching for something he knew to be there? Could he hear the men dying? Could he see the soldiers running away, scattering, leaving their warlord alone? Everyone else fleeing. Kaladin kneeling over Dallets body. A green-and-burgundy banner, flying alone on the field. Ive been here before! Kaladin bellowed, turning back toward that blue banner. Dalinar always fought at the front. What happened last time? Kaladin yelled. Ive learned! I wont be a fool again! It seemed to crush him. Sadeass betrayal, his exhaustion, the deaths of so many. He was there again for a moment, kneeling in Amarams mobile headquarters, watching the last of his friends being slaughtered, too weak and hurt to save them. He raised a trembling hand to his head, feeling the brand there, wet with his sweat. I owe you nothing, Kholin. And his fathers voice seemed to whisper a reply. Somebody has to start, son. Somebody has to step forward and do what is right, because it is right. If