and flaking in other areas. The tear is too even. Someone slit it. Dalinar felt a sense of dread. That was near what he had discovered, but it was presented in the worst possible light. For what purpose Dalinar began. Sadeas held up a hand. Please, Highprince. First you demand I report, then you interrupt me? Dalinar fell still. Around them, more and more of the important light-eyes were gathering. He could sense their tension. But when was it cut? Sadeas said, turning to address the crowd. He did have a flair for the dramatic. That was pivotal, you see. I took leave to interview numerous men who were on that hunt. None reported seeing anything specific, though all remembered that there was one odd event. The time when Brightlord Dalinar and His Majesty raced to a rock formation. A time when Dalinar and the king were alone. There were whispers from behind. There was a problem, however, Sadeas said. One Dalinar himself raised. Why cut the strap on a Shardbearers saddle? A foolish move. A horseback fall wouldnt be of much danger to a man wearing Shardplate. To the side, the servant Sadeas had sent away returned, leading a youth with sandy hair bearing only a few hints of black. Sadeas fished something out of a pouch at his waist, holding it up. A large sapphire. It wasnt infused. In fact, looking closely, Dalinar could see that it was crackedit wouldnt hold Stormlight now. The question drove me to investigate the kings Shardplate, Sadeas said. Eight of the ten sapphires used to infuse his Plate were cracked following the battle. It happens, Adolin said, stepping up beside Dalinar, hand on his side sword. You lose a few in every battle. But eight? Sadeas asked. One or two is normal. But have you ever lost eight in one battle before, young Kholin? Adolins only reply was a glare. Sadeas tucked away the gemstone, nodding to the youth his men had brought. This is one of the grooms in the kings employ. Fin, isnt it? YYes, brightlord, the boy stammered. He couldnt be older than twelve. What is it you told me earlier, Fin? Please, say it again so that all may hear. The darkeyed youth cringed, looking sick. Well, Brightlord sir, it was just this: Everyone spoke of the saddle being checked over in Brightlord Dalinars camp. And I suppose it was, right as that. But Im the one who prepared His Majestys horse afore it was turned over to Brightlord Dalinars men. And I did it, I promise I did. Put on his favorite saddle and everything. But