Father, no Go, son. Lirins voice was firm. Was it true? After all of this, would his father simply capitulate ? Kal felt his face grow red, and he fled the dining room. He knew the way to the kitchens. During his childhood, hed often dined there with Laral. He left not because he was told to, but because he didnt want his father or Roshone to see his emotions: chagrin at having stood to denounce Roshone when his father planned to make a deal, humiliation that his father would consider a deal, frustration at being banished. Kal was mortified to find himself crying. He passed a couple of Roshones house soldiers standing at the doorway, lit only by a very low-trimmed oil lamp on the wall. Their rough features were highlighted in amber hues. Kal hastened past them, turning a corner before pausing beside a plant stand, struggling with his emotions. The stand displayed an indoor vine-bud, one bred to remain open; a few conelike flowers climbed up from its vestigial shell. The lamp on the wall above it burned with a tiny, strangled light. These were the back rooms of the mansion, near the servant quarters, and spheres were not used for light here. Kal leaned back, breathing in and out. He felt like one of the ten fools specifically Cabine, who acted like a child though he was adult. But what was he to think of Lirins actions? He wiped his eyes, then pushed his way through the swinging doors into the kitchens. Roshone still employed Wistiows chef. Barm was a tall, slender man with dark hair that he wore braided. He walked down the line of his kitchen counter, giving instructions to his various subchefs as a couple of parshmen walked in and out through the mansions back doors, carrying in crates of food. Barm carried a long metal spoon, which banged on a pot or pan hanging from the ceiling each time he gave an order. He barely spared Kal a brown-eyed glance, then told one of his servants to go fetch some flatbread and fruited tallew rice. A childs meal. Kal felt even more embarrassed that Barm had known instantly why he had been sent to the kitchens. Kal walked to the dining nook to wait for the food. It was a whitewashed alcove with a slate-topped table. He sat down, elbows on the stone, head on his hands. Why did it make him so angry to think that his father might bargain away most of the spheres in exchange for safety? True, if that happened, there wouldnt be enough to send Kal to Kharbranth. But hed already decided to become a soldier. So it didnt matter. Did it?