knight in Plate. Sadeas shook his head in amusement at the thought. Dalinar frowned. Brother, Gavilar had written. You must find the most important words a man can say. A quote from the ancient text The Way of Kings . It would disagree strongly with the things Sadeas was implying. Regardless, Sadeas continued. Surely you cant argue with how effective my method has been. Sometimes, Dalinar said, the prize is not worth the costs. The means by which we achieve victory are as important as the victory itself. Sadeas looked at Dalinar incredulously. Even Adolin and Renarinwho had come closerseemed shocked by the statement. It was a very un-Alethi way of thinking. With the visions and the words of that book spinning in his mind lately, Dalinar wasnt feeling particularly Alethi. The prize is worth any cost, Brightlord Dalinar, Sadeas said. Winning the competition is worth any effort, any expense. It is a war, Dalinar said.  Not a contest. Everything is a contest, Sadeas said with a wave of his hand. All dealings among men are a contest in which some will succeed and others fail. And some are failing quite spectacularly. My father is one of the most renowned warriors in Alethkar! Adolin snapped, butting into the group. The king raised an eyebrow at him, but otherwise stayed out of the conversation. You saw what he did earlier, Sadeas, while you were hiding back by the pavilion with your bow. My father held off the beast. Youre a cowa Adolin! Dalinar said. That was going too far. Restrain yourself. Adolin clenched his jaw, hand to his side, as if itching to summon his Shardblade. Renarin stepped forward and gently placed a hand on Adolins arm. Reluctantly, Adolin backed down. Sadeas turned to Dalinar, smirking. One son can barely control himself, and the other is incompetent. This is your legacy, old friend? I am proud of them both, Sadeas, whatever you think. The firebrand I can understand, Sadeas said. You were once impetuous just like him. But the other one? You saw how he ran out onto the field today. He even forgot to draw his sword or bow! Hes useless! Renarin flushed, looking down. Adolin snapped his head up. He thrust his hand to the side again, stepping forward toward Sadeas. Adolin! Dalinar said. I will handle this! Adolin looked at him, blue eyes alight with rage, but he did not summon his Blade.