tone. Of course, Au-nak said. An excuse is what you make after the deed is done, while a justification is what you offer before. I would say an excuse is something you claim, but do not believe, Nak-ali. Hatham was using the high form of Au-naks name. While a justification is something you actually believe. Why such respect? The Natan must have something that Hatham wanted. Regardless, Au-nak said. This particular war is over the city of Sesemalex Dar, which the Emuli have made their capital. Its an excellent trade city, and the Tukari want it. Ive heard of Sesemalex Dar, Dalinar said, rubbing his chin. The city is quite spectacular, filling rifts cut into the stone. Indeed, Au-nak said. Theres a particular composition of the stone there that lets water drain. The design is amazing. Its obviously one of the Dawncities. My wife would have something to say on that, Hatham said. She makes the Dawncities her study. The citys pattern is central to the Emuli religion, the ardent said. They claim it is their ancestral homeland, a gift to them from the Heralds. And the Tukari are led by that god-priest of theirs, Tezim. So the conflict is religious in nature. And if the city werent such a fantastic port, Au-nak said, would they be as persistent about proclaiming the citys religious significance? I think not. Theyre pagans, after all, so we cant presume their religion has any real importance. Talk of the Dawncities had been popular lately among the lighteyesthe idea that certain cities could trace their origins back to the Dawnsingers. Perhaps Have any of you heard of a place known as Feverstone Keep? Dalinar asked. The others shook their heads; even Au-nak had nothing to say. Why? Hatham asked. Just curious. The conversation continued, though Dalinar let his attention wander back toward Elhokar and his circle of attendants. When would Sadeas make his announcement? If he intended to suggest that Dalinar be arrested, he wouldnt do it at a feast, would he? Dalinar forced his attention back to the conversation. He really should pay more heed to what was happening in the world. Once, news of which kingdoms