to be any playfulness in her tone. This is not proper. My brother He reached for the door to open it again. Your brother, Navani spat, expression flashing with anger. Why must everyone always focus on him? Everyone always worries so much about the man who died! Hes not here, Dalinar. Hes gone. I miss him. But not half as much as you do, it appears. I honor his memory, Dalinar said stiffly, hesitating, hand on the doors latch. Thats fine! Im happy you do. But its been six years , and all anyone can see me as is the wife of a dead man. The other women, they humor me with idle gossip, but they wont let me into their political circles. They think Im a relic. You wanted to know why I came back so quickly? I I returned , she said, because I have no home. Im expected to sit out of important events because my husband is dead! Lounge around, pampered but ignored. I make them uncomfortable. The queen, the other women at court. Im sorry, Dalinar said. But I dont She raised her freehand, tapping him on the chest. I wont take it from you, Dalinar. We were friends before I even met Gavilar! You still know me as me, not some shadow of a dynasty that crumbled years ago. Dont you? She looked at him, pleading. Blood of my fathers, Dalinar thought with shock. Shes crying. Two small tears. He had rarely seen her so sincere. And so he kissed her. It was a mistake. He knew it was. He grabbed her anyway, pulling her into a rough, tight embrace and pressing his mouth to hers, unable to contain himself. She melted against him. He tasted the salt of her tears as they ran down to her lips and met his. It lasted long. Too long. Wonderfully long. His mind screamed at him, like a prisoner chained in a cell and forced to watch something horrible. But a part of him had wanted this for decadesdecades spent watching his brother court, marry, and then hold the only woman that the young Dalinar had ever wanted. Hed told himself he would never allow this. He had denied himself feelings for Navani the moment Gavilar had won her hand. Dalinar had stepped aside. But the taste of herthe smell of her, the warmth of her pressed against him was too sweet. Like a blossoming perfume, it washed away the guilt. For a moment, that touch banished everything. He couldnt remember his fear at the visions, his worry about Sadeas, his shame at past mistakes.