One is a beginning, Rock said, shrugging. But my nuatoma lost, so I am bridgeman. Wait, Teft said. You came all of this way with your brightlord, and once he lost, you up and joined a bridge crew? No, no, you do not see, Rock said. My nuatoma, he challenged Highprince Sadeas. Is well known that there are many Shardbearers here on Shattered Plains. My nuatoma thought it easier to fight man with only Plate first, then win Blade next. And? Teft said. Once my nuatoma lost to Brightlord Sadeas, all of us became his. So youre a slave? Kaladin asked, reaching up and feeling the marks on his forehead. No, we do not have this thing, Rock said. I was not a slave of my nuatoma . I was his family. His family ? Teft said. Kelek! Youre a lighteyes! Rock laughed again, loud and full-bellied. Kaladin smiled despite himself. It seemed like so long since hed heard someone laugh like that. No, no. I was only umartia his cousin, you would say. Still, you were related to him. On the Peaks, Rock said, the relatives of a brightlord are his servants. What kind of system is that? Teft complained. You have to be a servant to your own relatives? Storm me! Id rather die, I think I would. It is not so bad, Rock said. You dont know my relatives, Teft said, shivering. Rock laughed again. You would rather serve someone you do not know? Like this Sadeas? A man who is no relation to you? He shook his head. Lowlanders. You have too much air here. Makes your minds sick. Too much air? Kaladin asked. Yes, Rock said. How can you have too much air? Its all around. This thing, it is difficult to explain. Rocks Alethi was good, but he sometimes forget to add in common words. Other times, he remembered them, speaking his sentences precisely. The faster he spoke, the more words he forgot to put in. You have too much air, Rock said. Come to the Peaks. You will see. I guess, Kaladin said, shooting a glance at Teft, who just shrugged. But youre wrong about one thing. You said that we serve someone we dont know. Well, I do know Brightlord Sadeas. I know him well. Rock raised an eyebrow.