youre spontaneous sometimes. Ergo, its correct. By that argument, its right about everybody . One hundred percent accurate! Well, not one hundred percent, Shallan said, swallowing another bite of the sweet, fluffy bread. As has been noted, Jasnah hates jam of all kinds. Ah yes, Kabsal said. Shes a jam heretic too. Her soul is in more danger than I had realized. He grinned and took a bite of his bread. Indeed, Shallan said. So what else does that book of yours say about me and half the worlds populationbecause of our enjoyment of foods with far too much sugar in them? Well, a fondness for simberry is also supposed to indicate a love of the outdoors. Ah, the outdoors, Shallan said. I visited that mythical place once. It was so very long ago, Ive nearly forgotten it. Tell me, does the sun still shine, or is that just my dreamy recollection? Surely your studies arent that bad. Jasnah is inordinately fond of dust, Shallan said. I believe she thrives on it, feeding off the particles like a chull crunching rockbuds. And you, Shallan? On what do you thrive? Charcoal. He looked confused at first, then glanced at her folio. Ah yes. I was surprised at how quickly your name, and pictures, spread through the Conclave. Shallan ate the last of her bread, then wiped her hands on a damp rag Kabsal had brought. You make me sound like a disease. She ran a finger through her red hair, grimacing. I guess I do have the coloring of a rash, dont I? Nonsense, he said sternly. You shouldnt say such things, Brightness. Its disrespectful. Of myself? No. Of the Almighty, who made you. He made cremlings too. Not to mentions rashes and diseases. So being compared to one is actually an honor. I fail to follow that logic, Brightness. As he created all things, comparisons are meaningless. Like the claims of your Palates book, eh? A point. There are worse things to be than a disease, she said, idly thoughtful. When you have one, it reminds you that youre alive. Makes you fight for what you have. When the disease has run its course, normal healthy life seems wonderful by comparison.