red, eyes wide with anger. She turned and pushed her way through the press of soldiers, scrambling up to the rim of the staging field. Renarin and some of Sadeass officers joined her in staring out over the Shattered Plains. And there they saw a creeping line of men limping back toward the warcamps, led by a mounted man in slate-grey armor. Dalinar rode Gallant at the head of two thousand six hundred and fifty-three men. That was all that remained of his assault force of eight thousand. The long trek back across the plateaus had given him time to think. His insides were still a tempest of emotions. He flexed his left hand as he rode; it was now encased by a blue-painted Shardplate gauntlet borrowed from Adolin. It would take days to regrow Dalinars own gauntlet. Longer, if the Parshendi tried to grow a full suit from the one he had left. They would fail, so long as Dalinars armorers fed Stormlight to his suit. The abandoned gauntlet would degrade and crumble to dust, a new one growing for Dalinar. For now, he wore Adolins. They had collected all of the infused gemstones among his twenty-six hundred men and used that Stormlight to recharge and reinforce his armor. It was still scarred with cracks. Healing as much damage as it had sustained would take days, but the Plate was in fighting shape again, if it came to that. He needed to make certain it didnt. He intended to confront Sadeas, and he wanted to be armored when he did. In fact, he wanted to storm up the incline to Sadeass warcamp and declare formal war on his old friend. Perhaps summon his Blade and see Sadeas dead. But he wouldnt. His soldiers were too weak, his position too tenuous. Formal war would destroy him and the kingdom. He had to do something else. Something that protected the kingdom. Revenge would come. Eventually. Alethkar came first. He lowered his blue-gauntleted fist, gripping Gallants reins. Adolin rode a short distance away. Theyd repaired his armor as well, though he now lacked a gauntlet. Dalinar had refused the gift of his sons gauntlet at first, but had given in to Adolins logic. If one of them was going to go without, it should be the younger man. Inside Shardplate, their differences in age didnt matterbut outside of it, Adolin was a young man in his twenties and Dalinar an aging man in his fifties.