again, hurting everywhere. As his father had trained him, he began to prod his side to check for broken ribs. He winced as he found several that were tender, at least cracked. Probably broken. He felt at his shoulder too, where he feared that his collarbone was broken. One of his eyes was swollen. Time would show if hed sustained any serious internal damage. He rubbed his face, and flakes of dried blood cracked free and fluttered toward the ground. Gash on his head, bloodied nose, split lip. Syl landed on his chest, feet planted on his sternum, hands clasped before her. Kaladin? Im alive, he mumbled, words slurred by his swollen lip. What happened? You were beaten by those soldiers, she said, seeming to grow smaller. Ive gotten back at them. I made one of them trip three times today. She looked concerned. He found himself smiling. How long could a man hang like this, blood going to his head? There was a lot of yelling, Syl said softly. I think several men were demoted. The soldier, Lamaril, he What? He was executed, Syl said, even more quietly. Highprince Sadeas did it himself, the hour the army got back from the plateau. He said something about the ultimate responsibility falling on the lighteyes. Lamaril kept screaming that you had promised to absolve him, and that Gaz should be punished instead. Kaladin smirked ruefully. He shouldnt have had me beaten senseless. Gaz? They left him in his position. I dont know why. Right of responsibility. In a disaster like this, the lighteyes are supposed to take most of the blame. They like to make a show of obeying old precepts like that, when it suits them. Why am I still alive? Something about an example, Syl said, wrapping her translucent arms around herself. Kaladin, I feel cold. You can feel temperature? Kaladin said, coughing. Not usually. I can now. I dont understand it. II dont like it. Itll be all right. You shouldnt lie. Sometimes its all right to lie, Syl. And this is one of those times? He blinked, trying to ignore his wounds, the pressure in his head, trying to clear his mind. He failed on all counts. Yes, he whispered.