had seen deaths and monsters, greatshells and nightmares. And yet, for some reason, this one disturbed him more than any. He found his own hand shaking as he raised the cup for a second sip. Adolin was still looking at him. Am I that bad to watch? Dalinar asked. The gibberish you speak is unnerving, Father, Renarin said. Unearthly, strange. Skewed, like a wooden building pushed to a slant by the wind. You thrash about, Adolin said. You nearly tipped over the chair. I had to hold it steady until you stilled. Dalinar stood up, sighing as he walked over to refill his cup. And you still think I dont need to abdicate? The episodes are containable, Adolin said, though he sounded disturbed. My point was never to get you to abdicate. I just didnt want you relying upon the delusions to make decisions about our houses future. So long as you accept that what you see isnt real, we can move on. No reason for you to give up your seat. Dalinar poured the wine. He looked eastward, toward the wall, away from Adolin and Renarin. I dont accept that what I see isnt real. What? Adolin said. But I thought I convinced I accept that Im no longer reliable, Dalinar said. And that theres a chance I might be going mad. I accept that something is happening to me. He turned around. When I first began seeing these visions, I believed them to be from the Almighty. You have convinced me that I may have been too hasty in my judgment. I dont know enough to trust them. I could be mad. Or they could be supernatural without being of the Almighty. How could that happen? Adolin said, frowning. The Old Magic, Renarin said softly, still sitting. Dalinar nodded. What? Adolin said pointedly. The Old Magic is a myth. Unfortunately, it is not, Dalinar said, then took another drink of the cool wine. I know this for a fact. Father, Renarin said. For the Old Magic to have affected you, youd have had to travel to the West and seek it. Wouldnt you? Yes, he said, ashamed. The empty place in his memories where his wife had once existed had never seemed as obvious to him as it did at that moment. He tended to ignore it, with good reason. Shed vanished completely, and it was sometimes difficult for him to remember that he had been married. These visions are not in line with what Ive understood about the Nightwatcher, Renarin said. Most consider her to be just some kind of