chance to sit, he was recovering, his head no longer ringing. The leader of the bridge crew was seeing to a mans wound, and his fingers worked with expertise. A man trained in field medicine, among bridgemen ? Well, why not? Dalinar thought. Its no odder than their being able to fight so well. Sadeas had been holding out on him. The young man looked up. And, for the first time, Dalinar noticed the slave brands on the youths forehead, hidden by the long hair. The youth stood, posture hostile, folding his arms. You are to be commended, Dalinar said. All of you. Why did your highprince retreat, only to send you back for us? Several of the bridgemen chuckled. He didnt send us back, their leader said. We came on our own. Against his wishes. Dalinar found himself nodding, and he realized that this was the only answer that made sense. Why? Dalinar asked. Why come for us? The youth shrugged. You allowed yourself to get trapped in there quite spectacularly. Dalinar nodded tiredly. Perhaps he should have been annoyed at the young mans tone, but it was only the truth. Yes, but why did you come? And how did you learn to fight so well? By accident, the young man said. He turned back to his wounded. What can I do to repay you? Dalinar asked. The bridgeman looked back at him. I dont know. We were going to flee from Sadeas, disappear in the confusion. We might still, but hell certainly hunt us down and kill us. I could take your men to my camp, make Sadeas free you from your bondage. I worry that he wouldnt let us go, the bridgeman said, eyes haunted. And I worry that your camp would offer no safety at all. This move today by Sadeas. It will mean war between you two, will it not? Would it? Dalinar had avoided thinking of Sadeassurvival had taken his focusbut his anger at the man was a seething pit deep within. He would exact revenge on Sadeas for this. But could he allow war between the princedoms? It would shatter Alethkar. More than that, it would destroy the Kholin house. Dalinar didnt have the troops or the allies to stand against Sadeas, not after this disaster. How would Sadeas respond when Dalinar returned? Would he try to finish the job, attacking? No, Dalinar thought. No, he did it this way for a purpose. Sadeas had not engaged him personally. He had abandoned Dalinar, but by