gave offerings. Lirin hadnt stopped healing or surgery. The townspeople had simply stopped their donations, all at a word from Roshone. He shouldnt be able to do this, Kal whispered. But he can, Lirin said. He wore a white shirt and black vest atop tan trousers. The vest was unbuttoned, the front flaps hanging down by his sides, like the skin pulled back from the torsos of the men in Kals drawings. We could spend the spheres, Kal said hesitantly. Those are for your education, Lirin snapped. If I could send you now, I would. Kals father and mother had sent a letter to the surgeons in Kharbranth, asking them to let Kal take the entry tests early. Theyd responded in the negative. He wants us to spend them, Lirin said, words slurred. Thats why he said what he did. Hes trying to bully us into needing those spheres. Roshones words to the townspeople hadnt exactly been a command. Hed just implied that if Kals father was too foolish to charge, then he shouldnt be paid. The next day, people had stopped donating. The townsfolk regarded Roshone with a confusing mixture of adoration and fear. In Kals opinion, he didnt deserve either. Obviously, the man had been banished to Hearthstone because he was so bitter and flawed. He clearly didnt deserve to be among the real lighteyes, who fought for vengeance on the Shattered Plains. Why do the people try so hard to please him? Kal asked of his fathers back. They never reacted this way around Brightlord Wistiow. They do it because Roshone is unappeasable. Kal frowned. Was that the wine talking? Kals father turned, his eyes reflecting pure Stormlight. In those eyes, Kal saw a surprising lucidity. He wasnt so drunk after all. Brightlord Wistiow let men do as they wished. And so they ignored him. Roshone lets them know he finds them contemptible. And so they scramble to please him. That makes no sense, Kal said. It is the way of things, Lirin said, playing with one of the spheres on the table, rolling it beneath his finger. Youll have to learn this, Kal. When men perceive the world as being right, we are content. But if we see a holea deficiencywe scramble to fill it. You make it sound noble, what they do. It is in a way, Lirin said. He sighed. I shouldnt be so hard on our neighbors. Theyre petty, yes, but its the pettiness of the ignorant. Im not disgusted by them. Im disgusted by the one who manipulates them. A man like