Well, these are a different kind of parshman, Teft said with a scowl. Bigger, stronger. They can jump chasms , for Keleks sake. And they grow armor. Thats just how it is. There was no disputing it, so they just moved on to gathering what they could. Many Parshendi used heavy weaponsaxes, hammersand those hadnt been carried along with the bodies like many of the spears and bows Alethi soldiers had. But they did find several knives and one ornate sword, still in a sheath at the Parshendis side. The skirts didnt have pockets, but the corpses did have pouches tied to their waists. These just carried flint and tinder, whetstones, or other basic supplies. So, they knelt to begin pulling the gemstones from the beards. Those gemstones had holes drilled through them to facilitate weaving, and Stormlight infused them, though they didnt glow as brightly as they would have if theyd been properly cut. As Rock pulled the gemstones out of the final Parshendis beard, Kaladin held one of the knives up near Dunnys torch, inspecting the detailed carving. Those look like glyphs, he said, showing it to Teft. I cant read glyphs, boy. Oh, right, Kaladin thought. Well, if they were glyphs, they werent ones he was familiar with. Of course, you could draw most glyphs in complex ways that made it hard to read them, unless you knew exactly what to look for. There was a figure at the center of the hilt, nicely carved. It was a man in fine armor. Shardplate, certainly. A symbol was etched behind him, surrounding him, spreading out from his back like wings. Kaladin showed it to Rock, who had walked up to see what he found so fascinating. The Parshendi out here are supposed to be barbarians, Kaladin said. Without culture. Where did they get knives like these? Id swear this is a picture of one of the Heralds. Jezerezeh or Nalan. Rock shrugged. Kaladin sighed and returned the knife to its sheath, then dropped it into his sack. Then they rounded the curve back to the others. The crew had gathered up sacks full of armor, belts, boots, and spheres. Each took up a spear to carry back to the ladder, holding them like walking sticks. Theyd left one for Kaladin, but he tossed it to Rock. He didnt trust himself to hold one of them again, worried hed be tempted to fall into another kata. The walk back was uneventful, though with the darkening sky, the men began jumping at every sound. Kaladin engaged Rock, Teft, and Dunny in conversation again. He was able to get Drehy and Torfin to talk a little as well. They safely reached the first chasm, much to the relief of his men. Kaladin sent the others up the ladder first, waiting to go up last. Rock waited with him,