be gone, the spheres safely in the hands of the ardents to use as a stipend during your years of study. Kaladin blinked in realization. They werent losing. They were winning . Think of it, Kaladin, Tien said. Youll live in one of the grandest cities in the world! It will be so exciting. Youll be a man of learning, like Father. Youll have clerks to read to you from any book you want. Kaladin pushed wet hair off his forehead. Tien made it sound a lot grander than hed been thinking. Of course, Tien could make a crem-filled puddle sound grand. Thats true, his mother said, still staring upward. You could learn mathematics, history, politics, tactics, the sciences Arent those things women learn? Kaladin said, frowning. Lighteyed women study them. But there are male scholars as well. If not as many. All this to become a surgeon. You wouldnt have to become a surgeon. Your life is your own, son. If you take the path of a surgeon, we will be proud. But dont feel that you need to live your fathers life for him. She looked down at Kaladin, blinking rainwater from her eyes. What else would I do? Kaladin said, stupefied. There are many professions open to men with a good mind and training. If you really wished to study all the arts, you could become an ardent. Or perhaps a stormwarden. Stormwarden. He reached by reflex for the prayer sewn to his left sleeve, waiting for the day hed need to burn it for aid. They seek to predict the future. Its not the same thing. Youll see. There are so many things to explore, so many places your mind could go. The world is changing. My familys most recent letter describes amazing fabrials, like pens that can write across great distances. It might not be long before men are taught to read. Id never want to learn something like that, Kaladin said, aghast, glancing at Tien. Was their own mother really saying these things? But then, shed always been like this. Free, both with her mind and her tongue. Yet, to become a stormwardenThey studied the highstorms, predicted themyesbut learned about them and their mysteries. They studied the winds themselves. No, Kaladin said. I want to be a surgeon. Like my father. Hesina smiled. If thats what you choose, thenas I saidwe will be proud of you. But father and I just want you to know that you can choose. They sat like that for some time, letting rainwater soak them. Kaladin kept