Shallan waited impatiently as the parshman porters lowered her lift to the Veils groundfloor, then hurried out into the cavernous central hall. A long walk later, she approached the guest quarters, nodding to the master-servants who served there. Half guards, half concierges, they monitored who entered and left. She used her thick brass key to unlock the door to Jasnahs rooms, then slipped inside and locked the door behind her. The small sitting chamber furnished with a rug and two chairs beside the hearthwas lit by topazes. The table still contained a half-full cup of orange wine from Jasnahs late research the night before, along with a few crumbs of bread on a plate. Shallan hurried to her own chamber, then shut the door and took the Soulcaster out of her safepouch. The warm glow of the gemstones bathed her face in white and red light. They were large enoughand therefore bright enoughthat it was hard to look at them directly. Each would be worth ten or twenty broams. Shed been forced to hide them outside in the recent highstorm to infuse them, and that had been its own source of anxiety. She took a deep breath, then knelt and slid a small wooden stick from under the bed. A week and a half of practice, and she still hadnt managed to make the Soulcaster dowell, anything at all. Shed tried tapping the gems, twisting them, shaking her hand, and flexing her hand in exact mimicry of Jasnah. Shed studied picture after picture shed drawn of the process. She tried speaking, concentrating, and even begging. However, shed found a book the day before that had offered what seemed like a useful tip. It claimed that humming, of all things, could make a Soulcasting more effective. It was just a passing reference, but it was more than shed found anywhere else. She sat down on her bed and forced herself to concentrate. She closed her eyes, holding the stick, imagining it transforming into quartz. Then she began humming. Nothing happened. She kept on humming though, trying different notes, concentrating as hard as she could. She kept her attention on the task for a good half hour, but eventually her mind began to wander. A new worry began to nibble at her. Jasnah was one of the most brilliant, insightful scholars in the world. Shed put the Soulcaster out where it could be taken. Had she intentionally duped Shallan with a fake? It seemed an awful lot of trouble to go through. Why not just spring the trap and reveal Shallan as a thief? The fact that she couldnt get the Soulcaster to work left her straining plausibility for explanations. She stopped humming and opened her eyes. The stick had not changed. So much for that tip, she thought, setting the stick aside with a sigh. Shed been so hopeful.