So what was the point of the Codes? Adolins father acted as if they were vitally important. Always be in uniform, always be armed, always stay sober. Be ever vigilant while under threat of attack. But there was no threat of attack. As he walked through the market, Adolin lookedreally lookedfor the first time and tried to see what it was his father was doing. He could pick out Dalinars officers easily. They wore their uniforms, as commanded. Blue coats and trousers with silver buttons, knots on the shoulders for rank. Officers who werent from Dalinars camp wore all kinds of clothing. It was difficult to pick them out from the merchants and other wealthy civilians. But that doesnt matter, Adolin told himself again. Because were not going to be attacked. He frowned, passing a group of lighteyes lounging outside another winehouse. Much as hed just been doing. Their clothingindeed, their postures and mannerismsmade them look like they cared only about their revelry. Adolin found himself annoyed. There was a war going on. Almost every day, soldiers died. They did so while lighteyes drank and chatted. Maybe the Codes werent just about protecting against the Parshendi. Maybe they were about something moreabout giving the men commanders they could respect and rely on. About treating war with the gravity it deserved. Maybe it was about not turning a war zone into a festival. The common men had to remain on watch, vigilant. Therefore, Adolin and Dalinar did the same. Adolin hesitated in the street. Nobody cursed at him or called for him to movethey could see his rank. They just went around him. I think I see now, he thought. Why had it taken him so long? Disturbed, he hurried on his way toward the days match. I walked from Abamabar to Urithiru, Dalinar said, quoting from memory. In this, the metaphor and experience are one, inseparable to me like my mind and memory. One contains the other, and though I can explain one to you, the other is only for me. Sadeassitting beside himraised an eyebrow. Elhokar sat on Dalinars other side, wearing his Shardplate. Hed taken to that more and more, sure that assassins were thirsting for his life. Together, they watched the men dueling down below, at the bottom of a small crater that Elhokar had designated the warcamps dueling arena. The rocky shelves running around the inside of the ten-foot-tall wall made excellent seating platforms.