beard was trimmed short and square, his head shaved. When he spoke, his voice had a cultured tone. Ah, excuse me, Brightness. I thought this was the alcove of Jasnah Kholin. It is, Shallan said. Oh. Youre waiting for her too? Yes. Would you mind terribly if I waited with you? He had a faint Herdazian accent. Of course not, Ardent. She nodded her head in respect, then gathered up her things in haste, preparing the seat for him. I cant take your seat, Brightness! Ill fetch another for myself. She raised a hand in protest, but he had already retreated. He returned a few moments later, carrying a chair from another alcove. He was tall and lean, and she decided with slight discomfortrather handsome. Her father had owned only three ardents, all elderly men. They had traveled his lands and visited the villages, ministering to the people, helping them reach Points in their Glories and Callings. She had their faces in her collection of portraits. The ardent set down his chair. He hesitated before sitting, glancing at the table. My, my, he said in surprise. For a moment, Shallan thought he was reading her letter, and she felt an irrational surge of panic. The ardent, however, was regarding the three drawings that lay at the head of the table, awaiting lacquer. You did these, Brightness? he said. Yes, Ardent, Shallan said, lowering her eyes. No need to be so formal! the ardent said, leaning down and adjusting his spectacles as he studied her work. Please, I am Brother Kabsal, or just Kabsal. Really, its fine. And you are? Shallan Davar. By Vedeledevs golden keys, Brightness! Brother Kabsal said, seating himself. Did Jasnah Kholin teach you this skill with the pencil? No, Ardent, she said, still standing. Still so formal, he said, smiling at her. Tell me, am I so intimidating as that? I have been brought up to show respect to ardents. Well, I myself find that respect is like manure. Use it where needed, and growth will flourish. Spread it on too thick, and things just start to smell. His eyes twinkled. Had an ardent a servant of the Almightyjust spoken of manure ? An ardent is a representative of the Almighty himself, she said. To show you lack