meaning. Rock shook his head, displeased. Lowlanders. How are you to know who you are if your name has no meaning? So your name means something? Teft asked. Numanu Numuhukumakiakiaialunamor, Rock said, the native Horneater sounds flowing easily from his lips. Of course. Is description of very special rock my father discovered the day before my birth. So your name is a whole sentence? Dunny asked, uncertainas if he wasnt sure he belonged. Is poem, Rock said. On the Peaks, everyones name is poem. Is that so? Teft said, scratching at his beard. Must make calling the family at mealtime a bit of a chore. Rock laughed. True, true. Is also making for some interesting arguments. Usually, the best insults on the Peaks are in the form of a poem, one which is similar in composition and rhyme to the persons name. Kelek, Teft muttered. Sounds like a lot of work. Is why most arguments end in drinking, perhaps, Rock said. Dunny smiled hesitantly. Hey you big buffoon, you smell like a wet hog, so go out by the moon, and jump yourself in the bog. Rock laughed riotously, his booming voice echoing down the chasm. Is good, is good, he said, wiping his eyes. Simple, but good. That almost had the sound of a song to it, Dunny, Kaladin said. Well, it was the first thing that came to mind. I put it to the tune of Maris Two Lovers to get the beat right. You can sing? Rock asked. I must be hearing. But Dunny said. Sing! Rock commanded, pointing. Dunny yelped, but obeyed, breaking into a song that wasnt familiar to Kaladin. It was an amusing tale involving a woman and twin brothers who she thought were the same person. Dunnys voice was a pure tenor, and he seemed to have more confidence when he sang than when he spoke. He was good. Once he moved to the second verse, Rock began humming in a deep voice, providing a harmony. The Horneater was obviously very practiced at song. Kaladin glanced back at the other bridgemen, hoping to pull some more into the conversation or the song. He smiled at Skar, but got only a scowl in return. Moash and Sigzilthe dark-skinned Azish manwouldnt even look at him. Peet looked only at his feet. When the song was finished, Teft clapped appreciatively. Thats a better performance than Ive heard at many an inn.