Rock looked skeptical. Many have searched for this thing. The eastern edge is open. Yes, Rock said, laughing, and when you are able to travel that far without being eaten by chasmfiend or killed in floods, I shall name you my kalukiiki.  Kaladin raised an eyebrow. Only a woman can be kalukiiki , Rock said, as if that explained the joke. Wife? Rock laughed even louder. No, no. Airsick lowlanders. Ha! Great. Look, see if you can memorize the chasms, perhaps make a map of some kind. I suspect that most who come down here stick to the established routes. That means were much more likely to find salvage down side passages; thats where Ill be sending Syl. Side passages? Rock said, still amused. One might begin to think you want me to be eaten. Ha, and by a greatshell. They are supposed to be tast ed , not tast ing . I No, no, Rock said. Is a good plan. I only jest. I can be careful, and this will be good for me to do, since I do not wish to fight. Thank you. Maybe youll happen upon a place we could climb out. I will do this thing, Rock said, nodding. But we cannot simply climb out. The army has many scouts on the Plains. Is how they know when chasmfiends come to pupate, eh? They will see us, and we will not be able to cross chasms without bridge. It was a good argument, unfortunately. Climb up here, and theyd be seen. Climb out in the middle, and theyd be stuck on plateaus without anywhere to go. Climb out closer to the Parshendi areas, and theyd be found by their scouts. That was assuming they could get out of the chasms. Though some were as shallow as forty or fifty feet, many were well over a hundred feet deep. Syl zipped away to lead Rock and his crew, and Kaladin moved back to the main body of bridgemen to help Teft correct stances. It was difficult work; the first day always was. The bridgemen were sloppy and uncertain. But they also showed remarkable resolve. Kaladin had never worked with a group who made fewer complaints. The bridgemen didnt ask for a break. They didnt shoot him resentful glances when he pushed them harder. The scowls they bore were at their own foibles, angry at themselves for not learning faster. And they got it. After just a few hours, the more talented of themMoash at the forefrontstarted to change into fighting men. Their stances grew firmer, more confident. When they should have been feeling exhausted and frustrated, they were more determined.