But you just said you have no desire for vengeance against me. I could learn. Tvlakv laughed. Ah, if you have not learned that already, then you probably never will! Besides, did you not threaten to throw me off a cliff? I think you have learned already. But now, we must discuss how to proceed. My map has met with an untimely demise, you see. Kaladin hesitated, then sighed. I dont know, he said honestly. Ive never been this way either. Tvlakv frowned. He leaned closer to the cage, inspecting Kaladin, though he still kept his distance. After a moment, Tvlakv shook his head. I believe you, deserter. A pity. Well, I shall trust my memory. The map was poorly rendered anyway. I am almost glad you ripped it, for I was tempted to do the same myself. If I should happen across any portraits of my former wives, I shall see that they cross your path and take advantage of your unique talents. He strolled away. Kaladin watched him go, then cursed to himself. What was that for? the windspren said, walking up to him, head cocked. I almost find myself liking him, Kaladin said, pounding his head back against the cage. Butafter what he did Kaladin shrugged. I didnt say Tvlakv isnt a bastard. Hes just a likable bastard. He hesitated, then grimaced. Those are the worst kind. When you kill them, you end up feeling guilty for it. The wagon leaked during highstorms. That wasnt surprising; Kaladin suspected that Tvlakv had been driven to slaving by ill fortune. He would rather be trading other goods, but somethinglack of funds, a need to leave his previous environs with hastehad forced him to pick up this least reputable of careers. Men like him couldnt afford luxury, or even quality. They could barely stay ahead of their debts. In this case, that meant wagons which leaked. The boarded sides were strong enough to withstand highstorm winds, but they werent comfortable. Tvlakv had almost missed getting ready for this highstorm. Apparently, the map Kaladin had torn up had also included a list of highstorm dates purchased from a roving stormwarden. The storms could be predicted mathematically; Kaladins father had made a hobby of it. Hed been able to pick the right day eight times out of ten.