out from underneath their bridges. There was a crashing sound as another bridge dropped, its bridgemen slaughtered. Behind, Gaz called out. Lift and down, you fools! The bridge crew lurched to a stop as the Parshendi launched another volley. Men behind Kaladin screamed. The Parshendi firing was interrupted by a return volley from the Alethi army. Though he was shocked senseless, Kaladins reflexes knew what do to. Drop the bridge, get into position to push. This exposed the bridgemen who had been safe in the back ranks. The Parshendi archers obviously knew this was coming; they prepared and launched one final volley. Arrows struck the bridge in a wave, dropping a half-dozen men, spraying blood across the dark wood. Fearsprenwiggling and violetsprang up through the wood and wriggled in the air. The bridge lurched, growing much harder to push as they suddenly lost those men. Kaladin stumbled, hands slipping. He fell to his knees and pitched out, leaning over the chasm. He barely managed to catch himself. He teetered, one hand dangling above the void, the other gripping the edge. His overextended mind wavered with vertigo as he stared down that sheer cliff, down into darkness. The height was beautiful; hed always loved climbing high rock formations with Tien. By reflex, he shoved himself back onto the plateau, scrambling backward. A group of foot soldiers, protected by shields, had taken up positions pushing the bridge. The armys archers exchanged arrows with the Parshendi as the soldiers pushed the bridge into place and heavy cavalry thundered across, smashing into the Parshendi. Four bridges had fallen, but sixteen had been placed in a row, allowing for an effective charge. Kaladin tried to move, tried to crawl away from the bridge. But he just collapsed where he was, his body refusing to obey. He couldnt even roll over onto his stomach. I should go he thought in exhaustion. See if that leathery-faced man is still alive. Bind his wounds. Save. But he couldnt. He couldnt move. Couldnt think. To his shame, he just let himself close his eyes and gave himself over to unconsciousness. Kaladin. He didnt want to open his eyes. To wake meant returning to that awful world of pain. A world where defenseless, exhausted men were made to charge