it, at least. Life before death. Strength before weakness. Journey before destination. Lost Radiants? Skar said, carrying an armful of boots. Whos bringing them up? Teft did, Moash said. I did not! That was just something I heard once. What does it even mean? Dunny asked. I said I dont know! Teft said. It was supposedly one of their creeds, Sigzil said. In Yulay, there are groups of people who talk of the Radiants. And wish for their return. Whod want them to return? Skar said, leaning back against the wall, folding his arms. They betrayed us to the Voidbringers. Ha! Rock said. Voidbringers! Lowlander nonsense. Is campfire tale told by children. They were real, Skar said defensively. Everyone knows that. Everyone who listens to campfire stories! Rock said with a laugh. Too much air! Makes your minds soft. Is all right, thoughyou are still my family. Just the dumb ones! Teft scowled as the others continued to talk about the Lost Radiants. Journey before destination, Syl whispered on Kaladins shoulder. I like that. Why? Kaladin asked, kneeling down to untie the dead bridgemans sandals. Because, she replied, as if that were explanation enough. Teft is right, Kaladin. I know you want to give up. But you cant. Why not? Because you cant . Were assigned to chasm duty from now on, Kaladin said. We wont be able to collect any more reeds to make money. That means no more bandages, antiseptic, or food for the nightly meals. With all of these bodies, were bound to run into rotspren, and the men will grow sickassuming chasmfiends dont eat us or a surprise highstorm doesnt drown us. And well have to keep running those bridges until Damnation ends, losing man after man. Its hopeless. The men were still talking. The Lost Radiants helped the other side, Skar argued. They were tarnished all along. Teft took offense at that. The wiry man stood up straight, pointing at Skar. You dont know anything! It was too long ago. Nobody knows what really happened. Then why do all the stories say the same thing? Skar demanded. They