he had only the Plate, not the Blade. Dalinar looked up. From this height, he could scan a large swath of the Shattered Plains, and he had an odd moment of familiarity. He felt as if hed been atop this vantage point before, looking down at a broken landscape. The moment was gone in a heartbeat. There, Elhokar said, pointing with a golden, gauntleted hand. I can see our destination. Dalinar shaded his eyes, picking out a large cloth pavilion three plateaus away, flying the kings flag. Wide, permanent bridges led there; they were relatively close to the Alethi side of the Shattered Plains, on plateaus Dalinar himself maintained. A fully grown chasmfiend living here was his to hunt, the wealth at its heart his privilege to claim. You were correct again, Uncle, Elhokar said. I try to make a habit of it. I cant blame you for that, I suppose. Though I can beat you at a race now and then. Dalinar smiled. I felt like a youth again, chasing after your father on some ridiculous challenge. Elhokars lips tightened to a thin line, and the gloryspren faded away. Mentioning Gavilar soured him; he felt others compared him unfavorably to the old king. Unfortunately, he was often right. Dalinar moved on quickly. We must have seemed of the ten fools, charging away like that. I do wish youd given me more notice to prepare your honor guard. This is a war zone. Bah. You worry too much, Uncle. The Parshendi havent attacked this close to our side of the Plains in years. Well, you seemed worried about your safety two nights ago. Elhokar sighed audibly. How many times must I explain this to you, Uncle? I can face enemy soldiers with Blade in hand. Its what they might send when were not looking, when all is dark and quiet, that you should be trying to protect me from. Dalinar didnt reply. Elhokars nervousnessparanoia, evenregarding assassination was strong. But who could blame him, considering what had happened to his father? Im sorry, brother, he thought, as he did every time he thought of the night when Gavilar had died. Alone, without his brother to protect him. I looked into the matter you asked me about, Dalinar said, forcing away bad memories. You did? What did you discover?