Adolin Renarin said warningly. Adolin looked to the side. Hed held out his hand, as if to summon his Blade. He picked up his reins with the hand instead. Storming man, he thought. Leave my father alone. Why dont we talk about the hunt? Renarin said. As usual, the younger Kholin rode with a straight back and perfect posture, eyes hidden behind his spectacles, a model of propriety and solemnity. Arent you excited? Bah, Adolin said. I never find hunts as interesting as everyone says theyre going to be. I dont care how big the beast isin the end, its really just butchery. Now, dueling, that was exciting. The feel of the Shardblade in your hand, of facing someone crafty, skilled, and careful. Man against man, strength against strength, mind against mind. Hunting some dumb beast just couldnt compare to that. Maybe you should have invited Janala along, Renarin said. She wouldnt have come, Adolin said. Not afterwell, you know. Rilla was very vocal yesterday. It was best to just leave. You really should have been wiser in your treatment of her, Renarin said, sounding disapproving. Adolin mumbled a noncommittal reply. It wasnt his fault that his relationships often burned out quickly. Well, technically, this time it was his fault. But it wasnt usually. This was just an oddity The king began complaining about something. Renarin and Adolin had lagged behind, and Adolin couldnt hear what was being said. Lets ride up closer, Adolin said, nudging his mount forward. Renarin rolled his eyes, but followed. Unite them. The words whispered in Dalinars mind. He couldnt rid himself of them. They consumed him as he trotted Gallant across a rocky, boulder-strewn plateau on the Shattered Plains. Shouldnt we be there by now? the king asked. Were still two or three plateaus away from the hunting site, Your Majesty, Dalinar said, distracted. It will be another hour, perhaps, observing proper protocols. If we had vantage, we could probably see the pavilion to Vantage? Would that rock formation up ahead do?