made his way out the door. Dalinar found himself smiling as well. Navani knew his son well. His smile didnt last long, however, as he realized that Adolins departure left him alone with Navani. He stood up. What is it you wished to ask of me? he asked. I didnt say I wanted to ask anything of you, Dalinar, she said. I just wanted to talk. We are family, after all. We dont spend enough time together. If you wish to speak, I shall fetch some soldiers to accompany us. He glanced at the antechamber outside. Adolin had shut the second door at the end, closing off his view of his guardsand their view of him. Dalinar, she said, walking up to him. That would kind of defeat the point of sending Adolin away. I was after some privacy. He felt himself growing stiff. You should go now. Must I? Yes. People will think this is inappropriate. They will talk. You imply that something inappropriate could happen, then? Navani said, sounding almost girlishly eager. Navani, you are my sister . We arent related by blood, she replied. In some kingdoms, a union between us would be mandated by tradition, once your brother died. We arent in other countries. This is Alethkar. There are rules. I see, she said, strolling closer to him. And what will you do if I dont go? Will you call for help? Have me hauled away? Navani, he said sufferingly. Please. Dont do this again. Im tired. Excellent. That might make it easier to get what I want. He closed his eyes. I cant take this right now. The vision, the confrontation with Adolin, his own uncertain emotionsHe didnt know what to make of things any longer. Testing the visions was a good decision, but he couldnt shake the disorientation he felt from being unable to decide what to do next. He liked to make decisions and stick to them. He couldnt do that. It grated on him. I thank you for your scribing and for your willingness to keep this quiet, he said, opening his eyes. But I really must ask you to leave now , Navani. Oh, Dalinar, she said softly. She was close enough that he could smell her perfume. Stormfather, but she was beautiful. Seeing her brought to his mind thoughts of days long past, when hed desired her so strongly that hed nearly grown to hate Gavilar for winning her affection. Cant you just relax, she asked him, just for a little while? The rules