Dalinar turned to seek out Gallant and make sure the horses wound was cared for. As he did, however, Sadeas caught his arm. I should be dead, Sadeas said softly. Perhaps. I didnt see much. But I thought I saw you alone. Where was your honor guard? I had to leave it behind, Dalinar said. It was the only way to get to you in time. Sadeas frowned. That was a terrible risk, Dalinar. Why? You do not abandon your allies on the battlefield. Not unless theres no recourse. It is one of the Codes. Sadeas shook his head. That honor of yours is going to get you killed, Dalinar. He seemed bemused. Not that I feel like offering a complaint about it this day! If I should die, Dalinar said, then I would do so having lived my life right. It is not the destination that matters, but how one arrives there. The Codes? No. The Way of Kings . That storming book. That storming book saved your life today, Sadeas, Dalinar said. I think Im starting to understand what Gavilar saw in it. Sadeas scowled at that, though he glanced at his armor, lying in pieces nearby. He shook his head. Perhaps I shall let you tell me what you mean. Id like to understand you again, old friend. Im beginning to wonder if I ever really did. He let go of Dalinars arm. Someone bring me my storming horse! Where are my officers? Dalinar left, and quickly found several members of his guard seeing to Gallant. As he joined them, he was struck by the sheer number of corpses on the ground. They ran in a line where he had punched through the Parshendi ranks to get to Sadeas, a trail of death. He looked back to where hed made his stand. Dozens dead. Perhaps hundreds. Blood of my fathers, Dalinar thought. Did I do that? He hadnt killed in such numbers since the early days of helping Gavilar unite Alethkar. And he hadnt grown sick at the sight of death since his youth. Yet now he found himself revolted, barely able to keep his stomach under control. He would not retch on the battlefield. His men should not see that. He stumbled away, one hand to his head, the other carrying his helm. He should be exulting. But he couldnt. He justcouldnt.