Josts eyes grew angrier at the mention of nahn. He held up his quarterstaff. You going to fight me or not? Angerspren began to appear in small pools at his feet, bright red. Kal knew what Jost was doing. It wasnt uncommon for the boys to look for a way to make themselves look better than him. Kals father said it had to do with their insecurity. Hed have told Kal to just drop the quarterstaff and walk away. But Laral was sitting right there, smiling at him. And men didnt become heroes by walking away. All right. Sure. Kal held up his quarterstaff. Jost swung immediately, more quickly than Kal had anticipated. The other boys watched with a mixture of glee, shock, and amazement. Kal barely managed to get his staff up. The lengths of wood cracked together, sending a jolt up Kals arms. Kal was knocked off balance. Jost moved quickly, stepping to the side and swinging his staff down and hitting Kal in the foot. Kal cried out as a flash of agony lanced up his leg, and he released the staff with one hand and reached down. Jost swung his staff around and hit Kals side. Kal gasped, letting the staff clatter to the stones and grabbing his side as he fell to his knees. He breathed out in huffing breaths, straining against the pain. Small, spindly painsprenglowing pale orange hand shapes, like stretching sinew or musclescrawled from the stone around him. Kal dropped one hand to the stones, leaning forward as he held his side. Youd better not have broken any of my ribs, you cremling, he thought. To the side, Laral pursed her lips. Kal felt a sudden, overpowering shame. Jost lowered his staff, looking abashed. Well, he said. You can see that my fah trained me right good. Maybe that will show you. The things he says are true, and Kal growled in anger and pain, snatching his quarterstaff from the ground and leaping at Jost. The older boy cursed, stumbling backward as he raised his weapon. Kal bellowed, slamming his weapon forward. Something changed in that moment. Kal felt an energy as he held the weapon, an excitement that washed away his pain. He spun, smashing the staff into one of Josts hands. Jost let go with that hand, screaming. Kal brought his weapon around and slammed it into the boys side. Kal had never held a weapon before, never been in a fight any more dangerous than a wrestling match with Tien. But the length of wood felt right in his fingers. He was amazed by how wonderful the moment felt.