He ignored that voice. It belonged to the man he had been. You used to be vibrant, Syl said. So many looked up to you, Kaladin. Your squad of soldiers. The enemies you fought. The other slaves. Even some lighteyes. Lunch would come soon. Then he could sleep until their bridgeleader kicked him awake for afternoon duty. I used to watch you fight, Syl said. I can barely remember it. My memories of then are fuzzy. Like looking at you through a rainstorm. Wait. That was odd. Syl hadnt started following him until after his fall from the army. And shed acted just like a regular windspren back then. He hesitated, earning a curse and a lash on his back from a taskmasters whip. He started pulling again. Bridgemen who were laggard in work were whipped, and bridgemen who were laggard on runs were executed. The army was very serious about that. Refuse to charge the Parshendi, try to lag behind the other bridges, and youd be beheaded. They reserved that fate for that specific crime, in fact. There were lots of ways to get punished as a bridgeman. You could earn extra work detail, get whipped, have your pay docked. If you did something really bad, theyd string you up for the Stormfathers judgment, leaving you tied to a post or a wall to face a highstorm. But the only thing you could do to be executed directly was refuse to run at the Parshendi. The message was clear. Charging with your bridge might get you killed, but refusing to do so would get you killed. Kaladin and his crew lifted their log into a pile with others, then unhooked their dragging lines. They walked back toward the edge of the lumberyard, where more logs waited. Gaz! a voice called. A tall, yellow-and-black-haired soldier stood at the edge of the bridge grounds, a group of miserable men huddled behind him. That was Laresh, one of the soldiers who worked the duty tent. He brought new bridgemen to replace those whod been killed. The day was bright, without a hint of clouds, and the sun was hot on Kaladins back. Gaz hustled up to meet the new recruits, and Kaladin and the others happened to be walking in that direction to pick up a log. What a sorry lot, Gaz said, looking over the recruits. Of course, if they werent, they wouldnt be sent here . Thats the truth, Laresh said. These ten at the front were caught smuggling. You know what to do. New bridgemen were constantly needed, but there were always enough bodies. Slaves were common, but so were thieves or other lawbreakers from