fell into his usual step-counting mantra, as hed been advised to do by that nameless bridgeman whose sandals he still wore. Eventually, they reached the last of the permanent bridges. They crossed a short plateau, passing the smoldering ruins of a bridge the Parshendi had destroyed during the night. How had the Parshendi managed that, during a highstorm? Earlier, while listening to the soldiers, hed learned that the soldiers regarded the Parshendi with hatred, anger, and not a little awe. These Parshendi werent like the lazy, nearly mute parshmen who worked throughout Roshar. These Parshendi were warriors of no small skill. That still struck Kaladin as incongruous. Parshmen? Fighting? It was just so strange. Bridge Four and the other crews got their bridges down, spanning a chasm where it was narrowest. His men collapsed to the ground around their bridge, relaxing while the army crossed. Kaladin nearly joined themin fact, his knees nearly buckled in anticipation. No, he thought, steadying himself. No. I stand. It was a foolish gesture. The other bridgemen barely paid him any heed. One man, Moash, even swore at him. But now that Kaladin had made the decision, he stubbornly stuck to it, clasping his hands behind his back and falling into parade rest while watching the army cross. Ho, little bridgeman! a soldier called from among those waiting their turn. Curious at what real soldiers look like? Kaladin turned toward the man, a solid, brown-eyed fellow with arms the size of many mens thighs. He was a squadleader, by the knots on the shoulder of his leather jerkin. Kaladin had borne those knots once. How do you treat your spear and shield, squadleader? Kaladin called back. The man frowned, but Kaladin knew what he was thinking. A soldiers gear was his life; you cared for your weapon as youd care for your children, often seeing to its upkeep before you took food or rest. Kaladin nodded to the bridge. This is my bridge, he said in a loud voice. It is my weapon, the only one allowed me. Treat her well. Or youll do what? called one of the other soldiers, prompting laughter among the ranks. The squadleader said nothing. He looked troubled. Kaladins words were bravado. In truth, he hated the bridge. Still, he remained standing. A few moments later, Highprince Sadeas himself crossed on Kaladins bridge. Brightlord Amaram had always seemed so heroic, so distinguished. A gentleman general. This Sadeas was a different creature entirely, with that round face, curly hair, and lofty expression. He rode as if he were in a parade, one hand lightly holding the reins before him, the other carrying his helm under his arm.