been there. He couldnt be gone. What of Laral? He was healthy just last week! He has always been frail, Kal, Lirin said. The Almighty calls all men back to the Spiritual Realm eventually. You didnt do anything? Kal blurted out; he regretted the words immediately. I did all I could, his father said, rising. Perhaps a man with more training than IWell, there is no use in regrets. He walked to the side of the room, removing the black covering from the goblet lamp filled with diamond spheres. It lit the room immediately, blazing like a tiny sun. We have no citylord then, Kal said, raising a hand to his head. He had no son. Those in Kholinar will appoint us a new citylord, Lirin said. Almighty send them wisdom in the choice. He looked at the goblet lamp. Those were the citylords spheres. A small fortune. Kals father put the covering right back on the goblet, as if he hadnt just removed it. The motion plunged the room back into darkness, and Kal blinked as his eyes adjusted. He left these to us, Kals father said. Kal started.  What?  Youre to be sent to Kharbranth when you turn sixteen. These spheres will pay your wayBrightlord Wistiow requested it be done, a last act to care for his people. You will go and become a true master surgeon, then return to Hearthstone. In that moment, Kal knew his fate had been sealed. If Brightlord Wistiow had demanded it, Kal would go to Kharbranth. He turned and walked from the surgery room, passing out into the sunlight, not saying another word to his father. He sat down on the steps. What did he want? He didnt know. That was the problem. Glory, honor, the things Laral had saidnone of those really mattered to him. But there had been something there when hed held the quarterstaff. And now, suddenly, the decision had been taken from him. The rocks Tien had given him were still in his pocket. He pulled them out, then took his canteen off his belt and washed them with water. The first one hed been given showed the white swirls and strata. It appeared the other one had a hidden design too. It looked like a face, smiling at him, made of white bits in the rock. Kal smiled despite himself, though it quickly faded. A rock wasnt going to solve his problems.