appropriate that the moment he accepted this strange, frightening part of himself, he couldnt make it work. It could have been a trick of the sunlight. A trick of the sunlight, Teft said flatly. Sticking a bag to the barrel was a trick of the light. All right. Then maybe it was some odd fluke, something that happened just that once.  And when you were wounded, Teft said,  and whenever on a bridge run you needed an extra burst of strength or endurance. Kaladin let out a frustrated sigh and tapped his head back lightly against the rock floor a few times. Well, if Im one of these Radiants you keep talking about, why cant I do anything? I figure, the grizzled bridgeman said, rolling the sphere in his fingers, that youre like a baby, making his legs work. At first it just kind of happens. Slowly, he figures how to make them move on purpose. You just need practice. Ive spent a week staring at spheres, Teft. How much practice can it take? Well, more than youve had, obviously. Kaladin rolled his eyes and sat back up. Why am I listening to you? Youve admitted that you dont know any more than I do. I dont know anything about using the Stormlight, Teft said, scowling. But I know what should happen. According to stories that contradict one another. Youve told me that the Radiants could fly and walk on walls. Teft nodded. They sure could. And make stone melt by looking at it. And move great distances in a single heartbeat. And command the sunlight. And And why, Kaladin said, would they need to both walk on walls and fly? If they can fly, why would they bother running up walls? Teft said nothing. And why bother with either one, Kaladin added, if they can just move great distances in a heartbeat? Im not sure, Teft admitted. We cant trust the stories or legends, Kaladin said. He glanced at Syl, who had landed beside one of the spheres, staring at it with childlike interest. Who knows what is true and what has been fabricated? The only thing we know for certain is this. He plucked up one of the spheres and held it up in two fingers. The Radiant sitting in this room is very, very tired of the color brown. Teft grunted. Youre not a Radiant, lad. Werent we just talking about Oh, you can infuse, Teft said. You can drink in the Stormlight and command it. But being a Radiant was more than that. It was their way of life, the