much I can do about the Parshendi arrows, so I have to do something about you . I have to make you stronger, so that when you charge that last leg of a bridge run arrows flyingyou can run quickly. He met the eyes of the men in the line, one at a time. I intend to see that Bridge Four never loses another man. The men stared at him incredulously. Finally, a hefty, thick-limbed man at the back bellowed out a laugh. He had tan skin, deep red hair, and was nearly seven feet tall, with large arms and a powerful torso. The Unkalakisimply called Horneaters by mostwere a group of people from the middle of Roshar, near Jah Keved. Hed given his name as Rock the previous night. Crazy! said the Horneater. Is crazy man who now thinks to lead us! He laughed in a deep-bellied way. The others joined him, shaking their heads at Kaladins speech. A few laughtersprenminnowlike silver spirits that darted through the air in circular patternsbegan to zip about them. Hey Gaz, Moash called, cupping his hand around his mouth. The short, one-eyed sergeant was chatting with some soldiers nearby. What? Gaz yelled back with a scowl. This one wants us to carry bridges about as practice, Moash called back. Do we have to do what he says? Bah, Gaz said, waving a hand. Bridgeleaders only have authority in the field. Moash glanced back at Kaladin. Looks like you can storm off, friend. Unless youre going to beat us all into submission. They broke apart, some men wandering back into the barrack, some walking toward the mess halls. Kaladin was left standing alone on the stones. That didnt go so well, Syl said from his shoulder. No. It didnt. You look surprised. No, just frustrated. He glared at Gaz. The bridge sergeant turned away from him pointedly. In Amarams army, I was given men who were inexperienced, but never ones who were blatantly insubordinate. Whats the difference? Syl asked. Such an innocent question. The answer should have been obvious, but she cocked her head in confusion. The men in Amarams army knew they had worse places they could go. You could punish them. These bridgemen know theyve reached the bottom. With a sigh, he let some of his tension bleed away. Im lucky I got them out of the barrack. So what do you do now? I dont know. Kaladin glanced to the side, where Gaz still stood chatting with the soldiers. Actually, yes I do.