had been one of the only bridgemen to retain any hint of innocence. And now he was dead, trampled by Sadeas, struck by arrows from both sides. Ignored, forgotten, abandoned. There was nothing Kaladin could do for him. So instead, Kaladin made his way to where the members of Bridge Eight lay, exhausted, on a patch of open stone. Kaladin remembered lying like that after his first bridge runs. Now he barely felt winded. As usual, the other bridge crews had left their wounded behind as they retreated. One poor man from Eight was crawling toward the others, an arrow through his thigh. Kaladin walked up to him. He had dark brown skin and brown eyes, his thick black hair pulled back into a long, braided tail. Painspren crawled around him. He looked up with as Kaladin and the members of Bridge Four loomed over him. Hold still, Kaladin said softly, kneeling and gently turning the man to get a good look at the wounded thigh. Kaladin prodded at it, thoughtful. Teft, well need a fire. Get out your tinder. Rock, you still have my needle and thread? Ill need that. Wheres Lopen with the water? The members of Bridge Four were silent. Kaladin looked up from the confused, wounded man. Kaladin, Rock said. You know how the other bridge crews have treated us. I dont care, Kaladin said. We dont have any money left, Drehy said. Even pooling our income, we barely have enough for bandages for our own men. I dont care. If we care for the wounded of other bridge crews, Drehy said, shaking a blond head, well have to feed them, tend them. I will find a way, Kaladin said. I Rock began. Storm you! Kaladin said, standing and sweeping his hand over the plateau. The bodies of bridgemen lay scattered, ignored. Look at that! Who cares for them? Not Sadeas. Not their fellow bridgemen. I doubt even the Heralds themselves spare a thought for these. I wont stand there and watch while men die behind me. We have to be better than that! We cant look away like the lighteyes, pretending we dont see. This man is one of us. Just like Dunny was. The lighteyes talk about honor. They spout empty claims about their nobility. Well, Ive only known one man in my life who was a true man of honor. He was a surgeon who would help anyone, even those who hated him.