and child. Dalinar jumped at them, forcing them away, uncertain where he found the strength. One got close, and he swung at it, falling into Windstance, as it was most familiar. The sweeping strikes, the grace. He struck at the beast, scoring it on its flank, but two others jumped at him from the side. Claws raked his back, and the weight threw him to the stones. He cursed, rolling, punching a creature and tossing it back. Another bit his wrist, causing him to drop the poker in a flash of pain. He bellowed and slammed his fist into the creatures jaw and it opened reflexively, freeing his hand. The monsters pressed forward. Somehow he got to his feet and stumbled back against the rock wall. The woman threw the lamp at a creature that got too close, spraying oil across the stones and setting it alight. The fire didnt seem to bother the creatures. The move exposed Seeli, as Taffa fell off balance in the throw. A monster knocked her down, and others scrambled for the childbut Dalinar leaped for her, wrapping his arms around her, huddling down and turning his back on the monsters. One leaped on his back. Claws sliced his skin. Seeli whimpered in terror. Taffa was screaming as the monsters overwhelmed her. Why are you showing me this! Dalinar bellowed into the night. Why must I live this vision? Curse you! Claws raked his back; he clutched Seeli, back arching in pain. He cast his eyes upward, toward the sky. And there, he saw a brilliant blue light falling through the air. It was like a star rock, dropping at an incredible speed. Dalinar cried out as the light hit the ground a short distance away, cracking the stone, spraying rock chips in the air. The ground shook. The beasts froze. Dalinar turned numbly to the side, then he watched in amazement as the light stood up, limbs unfolding. It wasnt a star at all. It was a mana man in glowing blue Shardplate, bearing a Shardblade, trails of Stormlight rising from his body. The creatures hissed furiously, suddenly throwing themselves at the figure, ignoring Dalinar and the other two. The Shardbearer raised his Blade and struck forward with skill, stepping into the attacks. Dalinar lay stunned. This was unlike any Shardbearer he had ever seen. The Plate glowed with an even blue light, and glyphssome familiar, others not were etched into the metal. They trailed blue vapor. Moving fluidly, Plate clinking, the man struck at the beasts. He effortlessly sheared a monster in half, flinging pieces into the night that trailed black smoke. Dalinar pulled himself to Taffa. She was alive, though her side was torn and