his. He had blue eyes, but he wasnt really a lighteyes. Nor was he a darkeyes. He waswell, he was the Kings Wit. That was a category all its own. Ah, young Prince Adolin! Wit exclaimed. You actually managed to pry yourself away from the camps young women long enough to join this hunt? Im impressed. Adolin chuckled uncomfortably. Well, thats been a topic of some discussion lately. Wit raised an eyebrow. Adolin sighed. Wit would find out eventually anywayit was virtually impossible to keep anything from the man. I made a lunch appointment with one woman yesterday, but I waswell, I was courting another. And shes the jealous type. So now neither will speak with me. Its a constant source of amazement that you get yourself into such messes, Adolin. Each one is more exciting than the previous! Er, yes. Exciting. Thats exactly how it feels. Wit laughed again, though he maintained a sense of dignity in his posture. The Kings Wit was not a silly court fool such as one might find in other kingdoms. He was a sword, a tool maintained by the king. Insulting others was beneath the dignity of the king, so just as one used gloves when forced to handle something vile, the king retained a Wit so he didnt have to debase himself to the level of rudeness or offensiveness. This new Wit had been with them for some months, and there was somethingdifferent about him. He seemed to know things that he shouldnt, important things. Useful things. Wit nodded to Dalinar. Your Lordship. Wit, Dalinar said stiffly. And young Prince Renarin! Renarin kept his eyes down. No greeting for me, Renarin? Wit said, amused. Renarin said nothing. He thinks youll mock him if he speaks to you, Wit, Adolin said. Earlier this morning, he told me hed determined not to say anything around you. Wonderful! Wit exclaimed. Then I can say whatever I wish, and hell not object? Renarin hesitated. Wit leaned in to Adolin. Have I told you about the night Prince Renarin and I had two days back, walking the streets of the warcamp? We came across these two sisters, you see, blue eyed and Thats a lie! Renarin said, blushing.