the Ten Heralds on Proving Day! With all due respect, Brightness, you seem to want potential wards to be master scholars already. I may be able to find a pair of eighty-year-old ardents in the city who might fit your requirements. They could interview for the position, though they may have trouble hearing well enough to answer your questions. I see, Jasnah replied. And do you speak with such pique to your parents as well? Shallan winced. Her time spent with the sailors had loosened her tongue far too much. Had she traveled all this way only to off end Jasnah? She thought of her brothers, destitute, keeping up a tenuous faade back home. Would she have to return to them in defeat, having squandered this opportunity? I did not speak to them this way, Brightness. Nor should I to you. I apologize. Well, at least you are humble enough to admit fault. Still, I am disappointed. How is it that your mother considered you ready for a wardship? My mother passed away when I was just a child, Brightness. And your father soon remarried. Malise Gevelmar, I believe. Shallan started at her knowledge. House Davar was ancient, but only of middling power and importance. The fact that Jasnah knew the name of Shallans stepmother said a lot about her. My stepmother passed away recently. She didnt send me to be your ward. I took this initiative upon myself. My condolences, Jasnah said. Perhaps you should be with your father, seeing to his estates and comforting him, rather than wasting my time. The men walking ahead turned down another side passage. Jasnah and Shallan followed, entering a smaller corridor with an ornate red and yellow rug, mirrors hanging on the walls. Shallan turned to Jasnah. My father has no need of me. Well, that was true. But I have great need of you, as this interview itself has proven. If ignorance galls you so much, can you in good conscience pass up the opportunity to rid me of mine? Ive done so before, Miss Davar. You are the twelfth young woman to ask me for a wardship this year. Twelve? Shallan thought. In one year? And shed assumed that women would stay away from Jasnah because of her antagonism toward the devotaries. The group reached the end of the narrow hallway, turning a corner to find to Shallans surprisea place where a large chunk of rock had fallen from the ceiling. A dozen or so attendants stood here, some looking anxious. What was going on? Much of the rubble had evidently been cleared away, though the gouge in the ceiling gaped ominously. It didnt look out on the sky; they had been