Kaladins spheres. He had only a handful of clearchips left. As they worked, Hobber limped out of the barrack. He was mending quickly, though the other two wounded that Kaladin had treated were still in bad shape. What are you up to, Kaladin? Hobber asked just as Kaladin got a flame started. Kaladin smiled, standing. Have a seat. Hobber did just that. He hadnt lost the near-devotion hed shown Kaladin for saving his life. If anything, his loyalty had grown stronger. Dunny returned with a bucket of water, which he poured into the cauldron. Then he and Teft ran off to get more. Kaladin built up the flames and Rock began to hum to himself as he diced tubers and unwrapped some seasonings. In under a half hour, they had a roaring flame and a simmering pot of stew. Teft sat down on one of the stumps, warming his hands. This is your secret weapon? Kaladin sat down next to the older man. Have you known many soldiers in your life, Teft? A few. You ever known any who could turn down a warm fire and some stew at the end of a hard day? Well, no. But bridgemen aint soldiers. That was true. Kaladin turned to the barrack doorway. Rock and Dunny started up a song together and Teft began to clap along. Some of the men from other bridge crews were up late, and they gave Kaladin and the others nothing more than scowls. Figures shifted inside the barrack, shadows moving. The door was open, and the scents of Rocks stew grew strong. Inviting. Come on, Kaladin thought. Remember why we live. Remember warmth, remember good food. Remember friends, and song, and evenings spent around the hearth. You arent dead yet. Storm you! If you dont come out It all suddenly seemed so contrived to Kaladin. The singing was forced, the stew an act of desperation. It was all just an attempt to briefly distract from the pathetic life he had been forced into. A figure moved in the doorway. Skarshort, square-bearded, and keen-eyed stepped out into the firelight. Kaladin smiled at him. A forced smile. Sometimes that was all one could offer. Let it be enough, he prayed, standing up, dipping a wooden bowl into Rocks stew. Kaladin held the bowl toward Skar. Steam curled from the surface of the