for, in the eyes of the uppers. The man had brown hair and deep tan skin just a shade too dark to be Alethi. The fingernails on his hand were slate-colored and crystallinehe was a Herdazian, then. Most of the newcomers shared the same defeated look of apathy but this man was smiling , though he wore a slaves mark on his head. That mark is old, Kaladin thought. Either he had a kind master before this, or he has somehow resisted being beaten down. The man obviously didnt understand what awaited him as a bridgeman. No person would smile if they understood that. You can use me, the man said. We Herdazians are great fighters, gon. He pronounced that last word like gone and it appeared to refer to Kaladin. You see, this one time, I was with, sure, three men and they were drunk and all but I still beat them. He spoke at a very quick pace, his thick accent slurring the words together. Hed make a terrible bridgeman. He might be able to run with the bridge on his shoulders, but not maneuver it. He even looked a little flabby around the waist. Whatever bridge crew got him would put him right in the front and let him take an arrow, then be rid of him. Gotta do what you can to stay alive, a voice from his past seemed to whisper. Turn a liability into an advantage. Tien. Very well, Kaladin said, pointing. Ill take the Herdazian at the back.  What?  Gaz said. The short man sauntered up to Kaladin. Thanks, gancho! Youll be glad you picked me. Kaladin turned to walk back, passing Gaz. The bridge sergeant scratched his head. You pushed me that hard so you could pick the one-armed runt? Kaladin walked on without a word for Gaz. Instead, he turned to the one- armed Herdazian. Why did you want to come with me? You dont know anything about the different bridge crews. You were only picking one, the man said. That means one man gets to be special, the others dont. Ive got a good feeling about you. Its in your eyes, gancho. He paused. Whats a bridge crew? Kaladin found himself smiling at the mans nonchalant attitude. Youll see. Whats your name? Lopen, the man said. Some of my cousins, they call me the Lopen because they havent ever heard anyone else named that. Ive asked around a lot, maybe one hundredor two hundredlots of people, sure. And nobody has heard of that name.