stiff, skeletal branches full of leaves that didnt withdraw in the wind. The entire landscape had an eerie feel to it, as if it were dead. Nothing moved. With a start, Rysn realized she couldnt see any spren. Not a one. No windspren, no lifespren, nothing. It was as if the entire land were slow of wit. Like a man who was born without all his brains, one who didnt know when to protect himself, but instead just stared at the wall drooling. She dug into the ground with a finger, then brought it up to inspect the soil, as Vstim had called it. It was dirty stuff. Why, a strong gust could uproot this entire field of grass and blow it away. Good thing the highstorms couldnt reach these lands. Near the wagons, the servants and guards unloaded crates and set up camp. Suddenly, the heliodor began to pulse with a brighter yellow light. Master! she called, standing. Someones nearby. Vstimwho had been going through crateslooked up sharply. He waved to Kylrm, head of the guards, and his six men got out their bows. There, one said, pointing. In the distance, a group of horsemen was approaching. They didnt ride very quickly, and they led several large animalslike thick, squat horsespulling wagons. The gemstone in the fabrial pulsed more brightly as the newcomers got closer. Yes, Vstim said, looking at the fabrial. That is going to be very handy. Good range on it. But we knew they were coming, Rysn said, rising from her stool and walking over to him. This time, he said. But if it warns us of bandits in the dark, itll repay its cost a dozen times over. Kylrm, lower your bows. You know how they feel about those things. The guards did as they were told, and the group of Thaylens waited. Rysn found herself tucking her eyebrows back nervously, though she didnt know why she bothered. The newcomers were just Shin. Of course, Vstim insisted that she shouldnt think of them as savages. He seemed to have great respect for them. As they approached, she was surprised by the variety in their appearance. Other Shin shed seen had worn basic brown robes or other workers clothing. At the front of this group, however, was a man in what must be Shin finery: a bright, multicolored cloak that completely enveloped him, tied closed at the front. It trailed down on either side of his horse, drooping almost to the ground. Only his head was exposed. Four men rode on horses around him, and they wore more subdued clothing. Still bright, just not as bright. They wore shirts, trousers, and colorful capes.