The Parshendi soldiers rarely disturbed their dead after they fell; theyd take roundabout paths of attack to avoid dead bodies. And when the Alethi marched over the Parshendi dead, they formed points of terrible conflict. Did the Alethi notice? Probably not. But he could see that the Parshendi revered their deadrevered them to the extent that they would endanger the living to preserve the corpses of the fallen. Kaladin could use that. He would use that. Somehow. The Alethi eventually won the battle. Before long, Kaladin and his team were slogging back across the plateau, carrying their bridge, three wounded lashed to the top. They had found only those three, and a part of Kaladin felt sick inside as he realized another part of him was glad. He had already rescued some fifteen men from other bridge crews, and it was straining their resourceseven with the money from the pouchesto feed them. Their barrack was crowded with the wounded. Bridge Four reached a chasm, and Kaladin moved to lower his burden. The process was rote to him now. Lower the bridge, quickly untie the wounded, push the bridge across the chasm. Kaladin checked on the three wounded. Every man he rescued this way seemed bemused at what hed done, even though hed been doing it for weeks now. Satisfied that they were all right, he moved to stand at parade rest while the soldiers crossed. Bridge Four fell in around him. Increasingly, they earned scowls from the soldiersboth darkeyed and lighteyedwho crossed. Why do they do that? Moash said quietly as a passing soldier tossed an overripe pile-vine fruit at the bridgemen. Moash wiped the stringy, red fruit from his face, then sighed and fell back into his stance. Kaladin had never asked them to join him, but they did it each time. When I fought in Amarams army, Kaladin said, I dreamed about joining the troops at the Shattered Plains. Everyone knew that the soldiers left in Alethkar were the dregs. We imagined the real soldiers, off fighting in the glorious war to bring retribution to those who had killed our king. Those soldiers would treat their fellows with fairness. Their discipline would be firm. Each would be an expert with the spear, and he would not break rank on the battlefield. To the side, Teft snorted quietly. Kaladin turned to Moash. Why do they treat us so, Moash? Because they know they should be better than they are. Because they see discipline in bridgemen, and it embarrasses them. Rather than bettering themselves, they take the easier road of jeering at us. Dalinar Kholins soldiers dont act like that, Skar said from just behind