for my wearing it. Well, what do men call you now? Many a thing, and only some of them polite. Almost all are true, unfortunately. You, however, you may call me Hoid. Your name? No. The name of someone I should have loved. Once again, this is a thing I stole. It is something we thieves do. He glanced eastward, over the rapidly darkening Plains. The little fire burning beside Hoids boulder shed a fugitive light, red from glimmering coals. Well, it was pleasant to meet you, Kaladin said. I will be on my way. Not before I give you something. Hoid picked up his flute. Wait, please. Kaladin sighed. He had a feeling that this odd man was not going to let him escape until he was done. This is a Trailmans flute, Hoid said, inspecting the length of dark wood. It is meant to be used by a storyteller, for him to play while he is telling a story. You mean to accompany a storyteller. Being played by someone else while he speaks. Actually, I meant what I said. How would a man tell a story while playing the flute? Hoid raised an eyebrow, then lifted the flute to his lips. He played it differently from flutes Kaladin had seeninstead of holding it down in front of him, Hoid held it out to the side and blew across its top. He tested a few notes. They had the same melancholy tone that Kaladin had heard before. This story, Hoid said, is about Derethil and the Wandersail . He began to play. The notes were quicker, sharper, than the ones hed played earlier. They almost seemed to tumble over one another, scurrying out of the flute like children racing one another to be first. They were beautiful and crisp, rising and falling scales, intricate as a woven rug. Kaladin found himself transfixed. The tune was powerful, almost demanding . As if each note were a hook, flung out to spear Kaladins flesh and hold him near. Hoid stopped abruptly, but the notes continued to echo in the chasm, coming back as he spoke. Derethil is well known in some lands, though I have heard him spoken of less here in the East. He was a king during the shadowdays, the time before memory. A powerful man. Commander of thousands, leader of tens of thousands. Tall, regal, blessed with fair skin and fairer eyes. He was a man to envy. Just as the echoes faded below, Hoid began to play again, picking up the