Youre an idiot. If you gave me half your food, youd be too weak to escape if I were to flee. Which I wont. It doesnt work. But Ten times, Kaladin whispered. Ten escape attempts in eight months, fleeing from five different masters. And how many of them worked? WellI meanyoure still here. Eight months. Eight months as a slave, eight months of slop and beatings. It might as well have been an eternity. He barely remembered the army anymore. You cant hide as a slave, Kaladin said. Not with that brand on your forehead. Oh, I got away a few times. But they always found me. And then back I went. Once, men had called him lucky. Stormblessed. Those had been liesif anything, Kaladin had bad luck. Soldiers were a superstitious sort, and though hed initially resisted that way of thinking, it was growing harder and harder. Every person he had ever tried to protect had ended up dead. Time and time again. And now, here he was, in an even worse situation than where hed begun. It was better not to resist. This was his lot, and he was resigned to it. There was a certain power in that, a freedom. The freedom of not having to care. The slave eventually realized Kaladin wasnt going to say anything further, and so he retreated, eating his slop. The wagons continued to roll, fields of green extending in all directions. The area around the rattling wagons was bare, however. When they approached, the grass pulled away, each individual stalk withdrawing into a pinprick hole in the stone. After the wagons moved on, the grass timidly poked back out and stretched its blades toward the air. And so, the cages moved along what appeared to be an open rock highway, cleared just for them. This far into the Unclaimed Hills, the highstorms were incredibly powerful. The plants had learned to survive. Thats what you had to do, learn to survive. Brace yourself, weather the storm. Kaladin caught a whiff of another sweaty, unwashed body and heard the sound of shuffling feet. He looked suspiciously to the side, expecting that same slave to be back. It was a different man this time, though. He had a long black beard stuck with bits of food and snarled with dirt. Kaladin kept his own beard shorter, allowing Tvlakvs mercenaries to hack it down periodically. Like Kaladin, the slave wore the remains of a brown sack tied with a rag, and he was darkeyed, of courseperhaps a deep dark green, though with darkeyes it was hard to tell. They all looked brown or black unless you caught them in the right light.