stormperhaps to attach themselves in a new location once the winds abated. Kaladin hoisted a rock, setting it on the bed of the wagon and rolling it beside some others. The rocks bottom was wet with lichen and crem. Knobweed wasnt rare, but neither was it as common as other weeds. A quick description had been enough to send Rock and Teft searching with some success. The breakthrough, however, had happened when Syl had joined the hunt. Kaladin glanced to the side as he stepped down for another stone. She zipped around, a faint, nearly invisible form leading Rock from one stand of reeds to another. Teft didnt understand how the large Horn eater could consistently find so many more than he did, but Kaladin didnt feel inclined to explain. He still didnt understand why Rock could see Syl in the first place. The Horneater said it was something hed been born with. A pair of bridgemen approached, youthful Dunny and Earless Jaks towing a wooden sled bearing a large stone. Sweat trickled down the sides of their faces. As they reached the wagon, Kaladin dusted off his hands and helped them lift the boulder. Earless Jaks scowled at him, muttering under his breath. Thats a nice one, Kaladin said, nodding to the stone. Good work. Jaks glared at him and stalked off. Dunny gave Kaladin a shrug, then hurried after the older man. As Rock had guessed, getting the crew assigned to stone- gathering duty had not helped Kaladins popularity. But it had to be done. It was the only way to help Leyten and the other wounded. Once Jaks and Dunny left, Kaladin nonchalantly climbed into the wagon bed and knelt down, pushing aside a tarp and uncovering a large pile of knobweed stems. They were about as long as a mans forearm. He made as if he were moving stones around in the bed, but instead tied a large double handful of the reeds into a bundle using thin rockbud vines. He dropped the bundle over the side of the wagon. The wagon driver had gone to chat with his counterpart on the other wagon. That left Kaladin alone, save for the chull that sat hunkered down in its rock shell, watching the sun with beady crustacean eyes. Kaladin hopped down from the wagon and placed another rock in the bed. Then, he knelt as if to pull a large stone out from under the wagon. With deft hands, however, he tied the reeds into place underneath the bed right beside two other bundles. The wagon had a large open space to the side of the axle, and a wood dowel there provided an excellent place for mounting the bundles. Jezerezeh send that nobody thinks to check the bottom as we roll back into camp. The apothecary said one drop came per stem. How many reeds would Kaladin need? He felt he knew the answer to that question without even giving it