Their ranks were spread out because of how they fought. Gallant galloped through them, and Parshendi threw themselves out of the massive stallions way, cursing in their melodic language. Hooves beat a thunder upon the rocks; Dalinar urged Gallant on with his knees. They had to keep momentum. Some Parshendi fighting on the front against Sadeass force turned and ran at him. They saw the opportunity. If Dalinar fell, hed land alone, surrounded by thousands of enemies. Dalinars heart thumped as he held his Blade out, trying to swipe at Parshendi who came too close. Within minutes, he approached the northwestern Parshendi line. There, his enemies formed up, raising spears and setting them against the ground. Blast! Dalinar thought. Parshendi had never set spears like that against heavy cavalry before. They were starting to learn. Dalinar charged the formation, then wheeled Gallant at the last moment, turning parallel to the Parshendi spear wall. He swung his Shardblade out to the side, shearing the tips from their weapons and hitting a few arms. A patch of Parshendi just ahead wavered, and Dalinar took a deep breath, urging Gallant directly into them, shearing off a few spear tips. Another one bounced off his shoulder armor, and Gallant took a long gash on the left flank. Their momentum carried them forward, trampling over the Parshendi, and with a whinny, Gallant burst free of the Parshendi line just to the side of where Sadeass main force was engaging the enemy. Dalinars heart pumped. He passed Sadeass force in a blur, galloping toward the back lines, where a churning, disorganized chaos of men tried to react to the new Parshendi force. Men screamed and died, a mess of forest green Alethi and Parshendi in black and red. There! Dalinar saw Sadeass banner flap for a moment before falling. He threw himself from Gallants saddle and hit the stones. The horse turned away, understanding. His wound was bad, and Dalinar would not risk him any further. It was time for the slaughter to begin again. He tore into the Parshendi force from the side, and some turned, looks of surprise in their usually stoic black eyes. At times the Parshendi seemed alien, but their emotions were so human. The Thrill rose and Dalinar did not force it down. He needed it too much. An ally was in danger. It was time to let the Blackthorn loose. Dalinar punched through the Parshendi ranks. He felled Parshendi like a man sweeping crumbs from the table after a meal. There was no controlled precision here, no careful engagement of a few squads with his honor guard at the back. This was a full-out attack, with all the power and deadly force of a life-long