And your thoughts? I feel inadequate to draw conclusions, Brightness. What is the point of research if not to draw conclusions? My tutors told me that supposition was only for the very experienced, Shallan explained. Jasnah sniffed. Your tutors were idiots. Youthful immaturity is one of the cosmeres great catalysts for change, Shallan. Do you realize that the Sunmaker was only seventeen when he began his conquest? Gavarah hadnt reached her twentieth Weeping when she proposed the theory of the three realms. But for every Sunmaker or Gavarah, are there not a hundred Gregorhs? He had been a youthful king notorious for beginning a pointless war with kingdoms that had been his fathers allies. There was only one Gregorh, Jasnah said with a grimace, thankfully. Your point is a valid one. Hence the purpose of education. To be young is about action. To be a scholar is about informed action. Or about sitting in an alcove reading about a five-year-old murder. I would not have you studying this if there were no point to it, Jasnah said, opening up another of her own books. Too many scholars think of research as purely a cerebral pursuit. If we do nothing with the knowledge we gain, then we have wasted our study. Books can store information better than we canwhat we do that books cannot is interpret . So if one is not going to draw conclusions, then one might as well just leave the information in the texts. Shallan sat back, thoughtful. Presented that way, it somehow made her want to dig back into the studies. What was it that Jasnah wanted her to do with the information? Once again, she felt a stab of guilt. Jasnah was taking great pains to instruct her in scholarship, and she was going to reward the woman by stealing her most valuable possession and leaving a broken replacement. It made Shallan feel sick. She had expected study beneath Jasnah to involve meaningless memorization and busywork, accompanied by chastisement for not being smart enough. That was how her tutors had approached her instruction. Jasnah was different. She gave Shallan a topic and the freedom to pursue it as she wished. Jasnah offered encouragement and speculation, but nearly all of their conversations turned to topics like the true nature of scholarship, the purpose of studying, the beauty of knowledge and its application. Jasnah Kholin truly loved learning, and she wanted others to as well. Behind the stern gaze, intense eyes, and rarely smiling lips, Jasnah Kholin truly believed in what she was doing. Whatever that was. Shallan raised one of her books, but covertly eyed the spines of Jasnahs