trousers, usually sleek and tight, a thin-bladed sword at her hip. Her eyes were so faintly violet they were almost white. She was amazing. Wonderful, intoxicating, overwhelming. Av elbowed him in the ribs again. Baxil jumped, then glared at his cousin, rubbing his belly. Baxil, the mistress said. My tools. He opened the bag, handing over a folded tool belt. It clinked as she took it, not looking at him, then she strode down the hallway to their left. Baxil watched, uncomfortable. This was the Hallowed Hall, the place where a wealthy man placed images of his Kadasix for reverence. The mistress walked up to the first piece of art. The painting depicted Epan, Lady of Dreams. It was beautiful, a masterpiece of gold leaf on black canvas. The mistress took a knife from her bundle and slashed the painting down the front. Baxil cringed, but said nothing. Hed almost gotten used to the casual way she destroyed art, though he was baffled by it. She did pay the two of them very well, however. Av leaned back against the wall, picking his teeth with a fingernail. Baxil tried to imitate his relaxed pose. The large hallway was lit with topaz chips set in beautiful chandeliers, but they made no move to take them. The mistress did not approve of stealing. Ive been thinking of seeking the Old Magic, Baxil said, partially to keep himself from cringing as the mistress moved on to gouge out the eyes of a fine bust. Av snorted. Why? I dont know, Baxil said. Seems like something to do with myself. Ive never sought it, you know, and they say every man gets one chance. Ask a boon of the Nightwatcher. Have you used yours? Nah, Av said. Dont fancy making the trip all the way to the Valley. Besides, my brother went. Came back with two numb hands. Never could feel anything with them again. What was his boon? Baxil asked as the mistress wrapped up a vase with a cloth, then quietly shattered it on the floor and crushed the pieces. Dont know, Av said. He never said. Seemed embarrassed. Probably asked for something silly, like a good haircut. Av smirked. I was thinking Id make myself more useful, Baxil said. Ask for courage, you know? If you want, Av replied. I figure there are better ways than the Old Magic. You never know what kind of curse youll end up with. I could phrase my request perfectly, Baxil said.