toward the beast, hand to the side. I defy you, creature! Elhokar screamed. I claim your life! They will see their gods crushed, just as they will see their king dead at my feet! I defy you! Damnations own fool! Dalinar thought, rounding Gallant. Elhokars Shardblade reformed in his hands, and he charged toward the monsters chest, his cracked shoulder leaking Stormlight. He got close and swung at the beasts torso, cutting free a piece of chitinlike a persons hair or nails, it could be cut by a Blade. Then Elhokar slammed his weapon into the monsters breast, seeking its heart. The beast roared and shook, knocking Elhokar free. The king barely kept hold of his Blade. The beast spun. That movement, unfortunately, brought its tail at Dalinar. He cursed, yanking Gallant in a tight turn, but the tail came too quickly. It slammed into Gallant, and in a heartbeat Dalinar found himself rolling, Oathbringer tumbling from his fingers and slicing a gash in the stone ground before puffing to mist. Father! a distant voice yelled. Dalinar came to rest on the stones, dizzy. He raised his head to see Gallant stumbling to his feet. Blessedly, the horse hadnt broken a leg, though the animal bled from scrapes and was favoring one leg. Away! Dalinar said. The command word would send the horse to safety. Unlike Elhokar, it would obey. Dalinar climbed to his feet, unsteady. A scraping sound came from his left, and Dalinar spun just in time for the chasmfiends tail to take him in the chest, tossing him backward. Again the world lurched, and metal hit stone in a cacophony as he slid. No! he thought, getting a gauntleted hand beneath himself and heaving, using the momentum of his slide to throw himself upright. As the sky spun, something seemed to right , as if the Plate itself knew which way was up. He landedstill moving, feet grinding on stone. He got his balance, then charged toward the king, beginning the process of summoning his Shardblade again. Ten heartbeats. An eternity. The archers continued to fire, and more than a few of their shafts bristled form the chasmfiends face. It ignored them, though Sadeass larger arrows still seemed to distract it. Adolin had sheared through another leg, and the creature lumbered uncertainly, eight of its fourteen legs dragging uselessly. Father! Dalinar turned to see Renarindressed in a stiff blue Kholin uniform, with a long coat buttoning to the neckriding across the rocky ground. Father, are you well? Can I help?