Warrior after warrior fell as Dalinar slaughtered them in sweeps, protecting the space just around him. He couldnt stop them all. His armor took hits, mostly on the arms and back. The armor cracked, like a crystal under too much stress. He roared, striking down four Parshendi as two more hit him from behind, making his armor vibrate. He spun and killed one, the other barely dancing out of range. Dalinar began to pant, and when he moved quickly, he left trails of blue Stormlight in the air. He felt like a bloodied prey beast trying to fend off a thousand different snapping predators at once. But he was no chull, whose only protection was to hide. He killed, and the Thrill rose to a crescendo within him. He sensed real danger, a chance of falling, and that made the Thrill surge. He nearly choked on it, the joy, the pleasure, the desire. The danger. More and more blows got through; more and more Parshendi were able to duck or dodge out of the way of his Blade. He felt a breeze through the back of his breastplate. Cooling, terrible, frightening. The cracks were widening. If the breastplate burst He screamed, slamming his blade down through a Parshendi, burning out his eyes, dropping the man without a mark on his skin. Dalinar brought his Blade up, spinning, cutting through the legs of another foe. His insides were a tempest of emotions, and his brow beneath the helm streamed with sweat. What would happen to the Alethi army if both he and Sadeas fell here? Two highprinces dead in the same battle, two sets of Plate and one Blade lost? It couldnt happen. He wouldnt fall here. He didnt yet know if he was mad or not. He couldnt die until he knew! Suddenly, a wave of Parshendi died that he hadnt attacked. A figure in brilliant blue Shardplate burst through them. Adolin held his massive Shardblade in a single hand, the metal gleaming. Adolin swung again, and the Cobalt Guard rushed forward, pouring into the gap Adolin created. The Parshendi song changed tempo, becoming frantic, and they fell back as more and more troops punched through, some in green, others in blue. Dalinar knelt down, exhausted, letting his Blade vanish. His guard surrounded him, and Adolins army washed over them all, overrunning the Parshendi, forcing them back. In a few minutes, the area was secure. The danger was past. Father, Adolin said, kneeling beside him, pulling his helm off. The youths blond and black hair was disheveled and sweat-slick. Storms! You gave me a fright! Are you well? Dalinar pulled his own helm free, sweet cooling air washing across his damp