Notes on Urithiru , the first one declared inside. The notebook was fullit appearedof quotes from and notations about various books Jasnah had found. All spoke of this place, Urithiru. Jasnah had mentioned it earlier to Kabsal. Shallan put that book aside, looking at the next, hoping for mention of the Soulcaster. This notebook was also filled to capacity, but there was no title on it. Shallan picked through, reading some entries. The ones of ash and fire, who killed like a swarm, relentless before the Heralds Noted in Masly, page 337. Corroborated by Coldwin and Hasavah. They take away the light, wherever they lurk. Skin that is burned. Cormshen, page 104. Innia, in her recordings of childrens folktales, speaks of the Voidbringers as being Like a highstorm, regular in their coming, yet always unexpected. The word Desolation is used twice in reference to their appearances. See pages 57, 59, and 64 of Tales by Hearthlight. They changed, even as we fought them. Like shadows they were, that can transform as the flame dances. Never underestimate them because of what you first see. Purports to be a scrap collected from Talatin, a Radiant of the Order of Stonewards. The sourceGuvlows Incarnate is generally held as reliable, though this is from a copied fragment of The Poem of the Seventh Morning, which has been lost. They went on like that. Pages and pages. Jasnah had trained her in this method of note takingonce the notebook was filled, each item would be evaluated again for reliability and usefulness and copied to different, more specific notebooks. Frowning, Shallan looked through the final notebook. It focused on Natanatan, the Unclaimed Hills, and the Shattered Plains. It collected records of discoveries by hunters, explorers, or tradesmen searching for a river passage to New Natanan. Of the three notebooks, the largest was the one that focused on the Voidbringers. The Voidbringers again. Many people in more rural places whispered of them and other monsters of the dark. The raspings, or stormwhispers, or even the dreaded nightspren. Shallan had been taught by stern tutors that these were superstition, fabrications of the Lost Radiants, who used tales of monsters to justify their domination of mankind. The ardents taught something else. They spoke of the Lost Radiantscalled the Knights Radiant thenfighting off Voidbringers during the war to hold Roshar. According to these teachings, it was only after defeating the Voidbringersand the departure of the Heraldsthat the Radiants had fallen. Both groups agreed that the Voidbringers were gone. Fabrications or long-