Games stilled. Men both drunken and sober turned to watch Szeth, and as he passed the three men with the firemoss, their fingers went limp. Most in the room knew what Szeth was about this night. A man had moved into Bornwater and opened his own gambling den to challenge Makkek. Likely this newcomer didnt believe the reputation of Makkeks phantom assassin. Well, he had reason to be skeptical. Szeths reputation was inaccurate. He was far, far more dangerous than it suggested. He ducked out of the gambling den, passing up the steps through the darkened storefront and then out into the yard. He tossed the cloak and face mask into a wagon as he passed. The cloak would only make noise, and why cover his face? He was the only Shin in town. If someone saw his eyes, theyd know who he was. He retained the tight black clothing; changing would take too much time. Bornwater was the largest town in the area; it hadnt taken Makkek long to outgrow Staplind. Now he was talking of moving up to Kneespike, the city where the local landlord had his mansion. If that happened, Szeth would spend months wading in blood as he systematically tracked down and killed each and every thief, cutthroat, and gambling master who refused Makkeks rule. That was months off. For now, there was Bornwaters interloper, a man named Gavashaw. Szeth prowled through the streets, eschewing Stormlight or Shardblade, counting on his natural grace and care to keep him unseen. He enjoyed his brief freedom. These momentswhen he wasnt trapped in one of Makkeks smoke-filled denswere too few lately. Slipping between buildingsmoving swiftly in the darkness, with the wet, cold air on his skinhe could almost think himself back in Shinovar. The buildings around him were not of blasphemous stone, but earthen ones, built with clay and soil. Those low sounds were not muffled cheers from within another of Makkeks gambling dens, but the thunder and whinnies of wild horses on the plains. But no. In Shinovar hed never smelled refuse like thatpungency compounded by weeks spent marinating. He was not home. There was no place for him in the Valley of Truth. Szeth entered one of the richer sections of town, where buildings had more space between homes. Bornwater was in a lait, protected by a towering cliffside to the east. Gavashaw had arrogantly made his home in a large mansion on the eastern side of town. It belonged to the provincial landlord; Gavashaw had his favor. The landlord had heard of Makkek and his quick rise to prominence in the underground, and supporting a rival was a good way to create an early check on Makkeks power.