fleeing Parshendi. The majority of the Parshendi still fought, resisting Sadeas on one side and Dalinars force on the other. The eastern plateau edge was just a short distance to Dalinars righthe had come up against the Parshendi force like a spear, slicing it through the center, splitting it off to the north and south. Around him lay the dead. Many of them had fallen face-down, taken in the back by spears or arrows from Dalinars forces. Some Parshendi were still alive, though dying. They hummed or whispered to themselves a strange, haunting song. The one they sang as they waited to die. Their whispered songs rose like the curses of spirits on Souls March. Dalinar had always found the death song the most beautiful of all he had heard from the Parshendi. It seemed to cut through the grunts, clangs, and screams of the nearby battle. As always, each Parshendis song was in perfect time with that of his fellows. It was as if they could all hear the same melody somewhere far away, singing along through sputtering, bloodied lips, with rasping breath. The Codes, Dalinar thought, turning toward his fighting men. Never ask of your men a sacrifice you wouldnt make yourself. Never make them fight in conditions you would refuse to fight in yourself. Never ask a man to perform an act you wouldnt soil your own hands doing. He felt sick. This wasnt beautiful. This wasnt glorious. This wasnt strength, power, or life. This was revolting, repellent, and ghastly. But they killed Gavilar! he thought, searching for a way to overcome the sickness he suddenly felt. Unite them. Roshar had been united, once. Had that included the Parshendi? You dont know if you can trust the visions or not , he told himself, his honor guard forming up behind him. They could be from the Nightwatcher or the Voidbringers. Or something else entirely. In that moment, the objections felt weak. What had the visions wanted him to do? Bring peace to Alethkar, unite his people, act with justice and honor. Could he not judge the visions based on those results? He raised his Shardblade to his shoulder, walking solemnly among the fallen toward the northern line, where the Parshendi were trapped between his men and Sadeass. His sickness grew stronger. What was happening to him? Father! Adolins shout was frantic. Dalinar turned toward his son, who was running to him. The young mans Plate was sprayed with Parshendi blood, but as always his Blade gleamed. What do we do? Adolin asked, panting. About what? Dalinar asked.