him in the rank at the very bottom of the V pattern. Cenn, however, was worthless. When Kaladins team engaged enemy squads, all of his training fled him. It took everything he had to just remain there, holding his spear outward and trying to look threatening. For the better part of an hour, Kaladins squad held their small hill, working as a team, shoulder to shoulder. Kaladin often left his position at the front, rushing this way and that, banging his spear on his shield in a strange rhythm. Those are signals, Cenn realized as Kaladins squad moved from the V shape into a ring. With the screams of the dying and the thousands of men calling to others, it was nearly impossible to hear a single persons voice. But the sharp clang of the spear against the metal plate on Kaladins shield was clear. Each time they changed formations, Dallet grabbed Cenn by the shoulder and steered him. Kaladins team didnt chase down stragglers. They remained on the defensive. And, while several of the men in Kaladins team took wounds, none of them fell. Their squad was too intimidating for the smaller groups, and larger enemy units retreated after a few exchanges, seeking easier foes. Eventually something changed. Kaladin turned, watching the tides of the battle with discerning brown eyes. He raised his spear and smacked his shield in a quick rhythm he hadnt used before. Dallet grabbed Cenn by the arm and pulled him away from the small hill. Why abandon it now? Just then, the larger body of Amarams force broke, the men scattering. Cenn hadnt realized how poorly the battle in this quarter had been going for his side. As Kaladins team retreated, they passed many wounded and dying, and Cenn grew nauseated. Soldiers were sliced open, their insides spilling out. He didnt have time for horror; the retreat quickly turned into a rout. Dallet cursed, and Kaladin beat his shield again. The squad changed direction, heading eastward. There, Cenn saw, a larger group of Amarams soldiers was holding. But the enemy had seen the ranks break, and that made them bold. They rushed forward in clusters, like wild axehounds hunting stray hogs. Before Kaladins team was halfway across the field of dead and dying, a large group of enemy soldiers intercepted them. Kaladin reluctantly banged his shield; his squad slowed. Cenn felt his heart begin to thump faster and faster. Nearby, a squad of Amarams soldiers was consumed; men stumbled and fell, screaming, trying to get away. The enemies used their spears like skewers, killing men on the ground like cremlings. Kaladins men met the enemy in a crash of spears and shields. Bodies shoved on all sides, and Cenn was spun about. In the jumble of friend and foe,