sinking in. He was a good man, and shared more with his father than others chose to admit. He turned away from Dalinar, leaning against the railing. You think Im a poor king, dont you, Uncle? What? Of course not! You always talk about what I should be doing, and where I am lacking. Tell me truthfully, Uncle. When you look at me, do you wish you saw my fathers face instead? Of course I do, Dalinar said. Elhokars expression darkened. Dalinar laid a hand on his nephews shoulder. Id be a poor brother if I didnt wish that Gavilar had lived. I failed himit was the greatest, most terrible failure of my life. Elhokar turned to him, and Dalinar held his gaze, raising a finger. But just because I loved your father does not mean that I think you are a failure. Nor does it mean I do not love you in your own right. Alethkar itself could have collapsed upon Gavilars death, but you organized and executed our counterattack. You are a fine king. The king nodded slowly. Youve been listening to readings from that book again, havent you? I have. You sound like him, you know, Elhokar said, turning back to look eastward again. Near the end. When he began to acterratically. Surely Im not so bad as that. Perhaps. But this is much like how he was. Talking about an end to war, fascinated by the Lost Radiants, insisting everyone follow the Codes Dalinar remembered those daysand his own arguments with Gavilar. What honor can we find on a battlefield while our people starve? the king had once asked him. Is it honor when our lighteyes plot and scheme like eels in a bucket, slithering over one another and trying to bite each others tails? Dalinar had reacted poorly to his words. Just as Elhokar was reacting to his words now. Stormfather! I am starting to sound like him, arent I? That was troubling, yet somehow encouraging at the same time. Either way, Dalinar realized something. Adolin was right. Elhokarand the highprinces with himwould never respond to a suggestion that they retreat. Dalinar was approaching the conversation in the wrong way. Almighty be blessed for sending me a son willing to speak his mind. Perhaps you are right, Your Majesty, Dalinar said. End the war? Leave a battlefield with an enemy still in control? That would shame us. Elhokar nodded in agreement. Im glad you see sense.