Yeah, Teft said. Though, Teft, Rock added, it would give you bath, which you very much need. Hey, Teft grumbled. Is that a comment on how I smell? No, Rock said. Is comment on what I have to smell. Sometimes, I am thinking that a Parshendi arrow in the eye would be better than smelling entire bridge crew enclosed in barrack at night! Teft chuckled. Id take offense at that if it werent true. He sniffed at the damp, moldy chasm air. This place aint much better. It smells worse than a Horneaters boots in winter down here. He hesitated. Er, no offense. I mean personally. Kaladin smiled, then glanced back. The thirty or so other bridgemen followed like ghosts. A few seemed to be edging close to Kaladins group, as if trying to listen in without being obvious. Teft, Kaladin said. Smells worse than a Horneaters boots? How in the Halls isnt he supposed to take offense at that phrase? Its just an expression, Teft said, scowling. It was out of my mouth before I realized what I was saying. Alas, Rock said, pulling a tuft of moss off the wall, inspecting it as they walked. Your insult has offended me. If we were at the Peaks, we would have to duel in the traditional aliltikii fashion. Which is what? Teft asked. With spears? Rock laughed. No, no. We upon the Peaks are not barbarians like you down here. How then? Kaladin asked, genuinely curious. Well, Rock said, dropping the moss and dusting off his hands, is involving much mudbeer and singing. Hows that a duel? He who can still sing after the most drinks is winner. Plus, soon, everyone is so drunk that they probably forget what argument was about. Teft laughed. Beats knives at dawn, I suppose. I guess that depends, Kaladin said. Upon what? Teft asked. On whether or not youre a knife merchant. Eh, Dunny? The other two glanced to the side, where Dunny had moved up close to listen. The spindly youth jumped and blushed. ErI Rock chuckled at Kaladins words. Dunny, he said to the youth. Is odd name. What is meaning of it? Meaning? Dunny asked. I dont know. Names dont always have a