probably be old enough. Five more months. For now, he figured that knowing the musclesand vital parts of a bodywould be pretty useful for either a surgeon or a spearman. A thump came at the door. Kal jumped. It hadnt been a knock, but a thump . It came again. It sounded like something heavy pushing or slamming against the wood. What in the stormwinds? Lirin said, rising from his stool. He crossed the small room; his undone vest brushed the operating table, button scraping the wood. Another thump. Kal scrambled out of his chair, closing the folio. At fourteen and a half, he was nearly as tall as his father now. A scraping came at the door, like nails or claws. Kal raised a hand toward his father, suddenly terrified. It was late at night, dark in the room, and the town was silent. There was something outside. It sounded like a beast. Inhuman. A den of whitespines were said to be making trouble nearby, striking at travelers on the roadway. Kal had an image in his head of the reptilian creatures, as big as horses but with carapace across their backs. Was one of them sniffing at the door? Brushing it, trying to force its way in? Father! Kal yelped. Lirin pulled open the door. The dim light of the spheres revealed not a monster, but a man wearing black clothing. He had a long metal bar in his hands, and he wore a black wool mask with holes cut for the eyes. Kal felt his heart race in panic as the would-be intruder leapt backward. Didnt expect to find anyone inside, did you? Kals father said. Its been years since there was a theft in the town. Im ashamed of you. Give us the spheres! a voice called out of the darkness. Another figure moved in the shadows, and then another. Stormfather! Kal clutched the folio to his chest with trembling hands. How many are there? Highwaymen, come to rob the town! Such things happened. More and more frequently these days, Kals father said. How could Lirin be so calm? Those spheres aint yours, another voice called. Is that so? Kals father said. Does that make them yours? You think hed let you keep them? Kals father spoke as if they werent bandits from outside the town. Kal crept forward to stand just behind his father, frightenedbut at the same time ashamed of that fear. The men in the darkness were shadowy, nightmarish things, moving back and forth, faces of black. Well give them to him, one voice said. No need for this to get violent, Lirin, another added. You aint going to