Gaz looked confused, though he did snatch the sphere from Kaladins hand. The money stops coming if something happens to me, Kaladin said, tucking the other four spheres into his pocket. Then he stepped forward. Kaladin was a tall man, and he loomed over the much shorter Gaz. Remember our bargain. Stay out of my way. Gaz refused to be intimidated. He spat to the side, the dark spittle clinging to the rock wall, oozing slowly. I aint going to lie for you. If you think one cremstained mark a week will I expect only what I said. What is Bridge Fours camp duty today? Evening meal. Scrubbing and cleaning. And bridge duty? Afternoon shift. That meant the morning would be open. The crew would like that; they could spend payday losing their spheres on gambling or whores, perhaps forgetting for a short time the miserable lives they lived. Theyd have to be back for afternoon duty, waiting in the lumberyard in case there was a bridge run. After evening meal, theyd go scrub pots. Another wasted day. Kaladin turned to walk back to the lumberyard. You arent going to change anything, Gaz called after him. Those men are bridgemen for a reason. Kaladin kept walking, Syl zipping down from the roof to land on his shoulder. You dont have authority, Gaz called. Youre not some squadleader on the field. Youre a storming bridgeman . You hear me? You cant have authority without a rank! Kaladin left the alleyway behind. Hes wrong. Syl walked around to hang in front of his face, hovering there while he moved. She cocked her head at him. Authority doesnt come from a rank, Kaladin said, fingering the spheres in his pocket. Where does it come from? From the men who give it to you. Thats the only way to get it. He looked back the way hed come. Gaz hadnt left the alleyway yet. Syl, you dont sleep, do you? Sleep? A spren? She seemed amused by the concept. Would you watch over me at night? he said. Make sure Gaz doesnt sneak in and try something while Im sleeping? He may try to have me killed. You think hed actually do that? Kaladin thought for a moment. No. No, probably not. Ive known a dozen