Moash met his eyes, then shrugged. Guess Im curious. He moved off to gather his squad. What in the raging winds Gaz thought, dumbfounded as he watched Bridge Four charge past. What had possessed them to try carrying the bridge to the side ? It required them to clump up in an odd way, forming three rows instead of five, awkwardly clutching the underside of the bridge and holding it off to their right. It was one of the strangest things hed ever seen. They could barely all fit, and the handholds werent made for carrying the bridge that way. Gaz scratched his head as he watched them pass, then held out a hand, stopping Kaladin as he jogged by. The lordling let go of the bridge and hurried up to Gaz, wiping his brow as the others continued running. Yes? What is that? Gaz said, pointing. Bridge crew. Carrying what I believe isyes, its a bridge . I didnt ask for lip, Gaz snarled. I want an explanation. Carrying the bridge over our heads gets tiring, Kaladin said. He was a tall man, tall enough to tower over Gaz. Storm it, I will not be intimidated! This is a way to use different muscles. Like shifting a pack from one shoulder to the other. Gaz glanced to the side. Had something moved in the darkness? Gaz? Kaladin asked. Look, lordling, Gaz said, looking back to him. Carrying it overhead may be tiring, but carrying it like that is just plain stupid. You look like youre about to stumble over one another, and the handholds are terrible. You can barely fit the men. Yes, Kaladin said more softly. But a lot of the time, only half of a bridge crew will survive a bridge run. We can carry it back this way when there are fewer of us. It will let us shift positions, at least. Gaz hesitated. Only half a bridge crew If they carried the bridge like that on an actual assault, theyd go slowly, expose themselves. It could be a disaster , for Bridge Four at least. Gaz smiled. I like it. Kaladin looked shocked.  What?  Initiative. Creativity. Yes, keep practicing. Id very much like to see you make a plateau approach carrying the bridge that way.