months, Shallan was beginning to think shed never catch the woman. Was the princess avoiding her? No, that didnt seem likelyShallan just wasnt important enough to wait for. Brightness Jasnah Kholin was one of the most powerful women in the world. And one of the most infamous. She was the only member of a faithful royal house who was a professed heretic. Shallan tried not to grow anxious. Most likely, theyd discover that Jasnah had moved on again. The Winds pleasure would dock for the night, and Shallan would negotiate a price with the captainsteeply discounted, because of her familys investments in Tozbeks shipping businessto take her to the next port. Already, they were months past the time when Tozbek had expected to be rid of her. Shed never sensed resentment from him; his honor and loyalty kept him agreeing to her requests. However, his patience wouldnt last forever, and neither would her money. Shed already used over half the spheres shed brought with her. He wouldnt abandon her in an unfamiliar city, of course, but he might regretfully insist on taking her back to Vedenar. Captain! a sailor said, rushing up the gangplank. He wore only a vest and loose, baggy trousers, and had the darkly tanned skin of one who worked in the sun. No message, sir. Dock registrar says that Jasnah hasnt left yet. Ha! the captain said, turning to Shallan. The hunt is over! Bless the Heralds, Shallan said softly. The captain smiled, flamboyant eyebrows looking like streaks of light coming from his eyes. It must be your beautiful face that brought us this favorable wind! The windspren themselves were entranced by you, Brightness Shallan, and led us here! Shallan blushed, considering a response that wasnt particularly proper. Ah! the captain said, pointing at her. I can see you have a replyI see it in your eyes, young miss! Spit it out. Words arent meant to be kept inside, you see. They are free creatures, and if locked away will unsettle the stomach. Its not polite, Shallan protested. Tozbek bellowed a laugh. Months of travel, and still you claim that! I keep telling you that were sailors! We forgot how to be polite the moment we set first foot on a ship; were far beyond redemption now. She smiled. Shed been trained by stern nurses and tutors to hold her tongue unfortunately, her brothers had been even more determined in encouraging her to do the opposite. Shed made a habit of entertaining them with witty comments when nobody else was near. She thought fondly of hours spent by the crackling greatroom hearth, the younger three of her four brothers huddled around her, listening as she made sport of their fathers newest sycophant or a traveling ardent. Shed often fabricated silly versions of conversations to fill the mouths of