the night inside of them. They were gruff er, more shadowed of face. Shouts still rang through the city, but those carried the night in them too, measured by the roughness of their words and the sharpness of their tones. The steep, slanted hillside that formed the city was no less crowded with buildings than always, yet these too seemed to draw in the night. Blackened, like stones burned by a fire. Hollow remains. The bells still rang. In the darkness, each ring was a tiny scream. They made the wind more present, a living thing that caused a chiming cacophony each time it passed. A breeze rose, and an avalanche of sound came tumbling across the Ralinsa. Shallan nearly found herself ducking before it. Brightness, Shallan said. Shouldnt we call for a palanquin? A palanquin might inhibit the lesson. Ill be all right learning that lesson during the day, if you wouldnt mind. Jasnah stopped, looking off the Ralinsa and toward a darker side street. What do you think of that roadway, Shallan? It doesnt look particularly appealing to me. And yet, Jasnah said, it is the most direct route from the Ralinsa to the theater district. Is that where were going? We arent going anywhere, Jasnah said, taking off down the side street. We are acting, pondering, and learning. Shallan followed nervously. The night swallowed them; only the occasional light from late-night taverns and shops offered illumination. Jasnah wore her black, fingerless glove over her Soulcaster, hiding the light of its gemstones. Shallan found herself creeping. Her slippered feet could feel every change in the ground underfoot, each pebble and crack. She looked about nervously as they passed a group of workers gathered around a tavern doorway. They were darkeyes, of course. In the night, that distinction seemed more profound. Brightness? Shallan asked in a hushed tone. When we are young, Jasnah said, we want simple answers. There is no greater indication of youth, perhaps, than the desire for everything to be as it should . As it has ever been. Shallan frowned, still watching the men by the tavern over her shoulder. The older we grow, Jasnah said, the more we question. We begin to ask why. And yet, we still want the answers to be simple. We assume that the people around usadults, leaderswill have those answers. Whatever they give often satisfies us. I was never satisfied, Shallan said softly. I wanted more. You were mature, Jasnah said. What you describe happens to most of us,