Escape to the east. It seemed unlikely. The highprinces had tried very hard to explore that way, looking for a route to the center of the Plains. Theyd failed. Chasmfiends had killed some groups. Others had been caught in the chasms during highstorms, despite precautions. It was impossible to predict the storms perfectly. Other scouting parties had avoided those two fates. Theyd used enormous extensible ladders to climb atop plateaus during highstorms. Theyd lost many men, though, as the plateau tops provided poor cover during storms, and you couldnt bring wagons or other shelter with you into the chasms. The bigger problem, hed heard, had been the Parshendi patrols. Theyd found and killed dozens of scouting parties. Kaladin? Teft asked, hustling up, splashing through a puddle where bits of empty cremling carapace floated. You all right? Fine. You look thoughtful. More breakfast-full, Kaladin said. That gruel was particularly dense this morning. Teft smiled. I never took you for the glib type. I used to be more so. I get it from my mother. You could rarely say anything to her without getting it twisted about and tossed back to you. Teft nodded. They walked in silence for a time, the bridgemen behind laughing as Dunny told a story about the first girl hed ever kissed. Son, Teft said, have you felt anything strange lately? Strange? What kind of strange? I dont know. Justanything odd? He coughed. You know, like odd surges of strength? Theer, feeling that youre light? The feeling that Im what ? Light. Er, maybe, like your head is light. Light-headed. That sort of thing. Storm it, boy, Im just checking to see if youre still sick. You were beat up pretty badly by that highstorm. Im fine, Kaladin said. Remarkably so, actually. Odd, eh? It was odd. It fed his nagging worry that he was subject to some kind of supernatural curse of the type that were supposed to happen to people who sought the Old Magic. There were stories of evil men made immortal, then tortured over and over againlike Extes, who had his arms torn off each day for sacrificing his son to the Voidbringers in exchange for knowledge of the day of his death. It was just a tale, but tales came from somewhere. Kaladin lived when everyone else died. Was that the work of some spren