was already across the bridges, and Sadeass banner was approaching. Was the highprince wounded? Drehy, Leyten, grab Skar. Rock and Peet, you take Teft. Hustle to the western side of the plateau in preparation to flee. The rest of you, get into bridge positions. The men, only now noticing what was going on, responded with anxiety. Moash, youre with me, Kaladin said, hastening toward their bridge. Moash hurried up beside Kaladin. Whats going on? Sadeas is pulling out, Kaladin said, watching the tide of Sadeass men in green slide away from the Parshendi lines like wax melting. Theres no reason to. The battles barely begun, and his forces were winning. I can only think that Sadeas must have been wounded. Why would they withdraw the entire army for that? Moash said. You dont think he is His banner still flies, Kaladin said. So hes probably not dead. Unless they left it up to keep the men from panicking. He and Moash reached the side of the bridge. Behind, the rest of the crew hastened to form a line. Matal was on the other side of the chasm, speaking with the commander of the rear guard. After a quick exchange, Matal crossed and began to run down the line of bridge crews, calling for them to prepare to carry. He glanced at Kaladins team, but saw they were already ready, and so hurried on. To Kaladins right, on the adjacent plateauthe one where Dalinar had launched his assaultthe eight lent bridge crews pulled away from the battlefield, crossing over to Kaladins plateau. A lighteyed officer Kaladin didnt recognize was giving them orders. Beyond them, farther to the southwest, a new Parshendi force had arrived, and was pouring onto the Tower. Sadeas rode up to the chasm. The paint on his Shardplate gleamed in the sun; it didnt bear a single scratch. In fact, his entire honor guard was unharmed. Though they had gone over to the Tower, they had disengaged the enemy and come back. Why? And then Kaladin saw it. Dalinar Kholins force, fighting on the upper middle slope of the wedge, was now surrounded. This new Parshendi force was flooding into sections that Sadeas had held, supposedly protecting Dalinars retreat. Theyre abandoning him! Kaladin said. This was a trap. A setup. Sadeas is leaving Highprince Kholinand all of his soldiersto die. Kaladin scrambled around the end of the bridge, pushing through the soldiers who were coming off it. Moash cursed and followed.