He tried not to think about what he was doing. Climbing on rocks stuck to the wall by what? Light? Spren? He kept on going. It was a lot like climbing the stone formations back near Hearthstone with Tien, except that he could make handholds exactly where he wanted. Should have found some rock dust to cover my hands, he thought, pulling himself up, then taking another stone from his sack and sticking it into place. Syl walked along beside him, her casual stroll seeming to mock the difficulty of his climb. As he shifted his weight to another rock, he heard an ominous click from below. He risked a glance downward. The first of his rocks had fallen free. The ones near it were leaking Stormlight only faintly now. The rocks led up toward him like a set of burning footprints. The storm inside him had quieted, though it still blew and raged inside his veins, thrilling and distracting at the same time. What would happen if he ran out of Light before he reached the top? The next rock fell free. The one beside it followed a few seconds later. Lopen stood on the other side of the chasm bottom, leaning against the wall, interested but relaxed. Keep moving! Kaladin thought, annoyed at himself for getting distracted. He turned back to his work. Just as his arms were beginning to burn from the climb, he reached the underside of the bridge. He reached out as two more of his stones fell free. The clatter of each one was louder now, as they fell a much larger distance. Steadying himself on the bottom of the bridge with one hand, feet still pushing against the highest rocks, he looped the end of the rope around a wooden bridge support. He pulled it around and threaded it through again to make a makeshift knot. He left plenty of extra rope on the short end. He let the rest of the rope slide free of his shoulder and drop to the floor below. Lopen, he called. Light steamed from his mouth as he spoke. Pull it tight. The Herdazian did so, and Kaladin held to his end, making the knot firm. Then he took hold of the long section of rope and let himself swing free, dangling from the bottom of the bridge. The knot held. Kaladin relaxed. He was still steaming light, andsave for the call to Lopen hed been holding his breath for a good quarter hour. That could be handy, he thought, though his lungs were starting to burn, so he started to breathe normally. The Light didnt leave him altogether, though it escaped faster. All right, Kaladin said to Lopen. Tie the other sack to the bottom of the rope. The rope wiggled, and a few moments later Lopen called up that it was done.