I had to know, Elhokar whispered. I couldnt trust anyone. He groaned beneath Dalinars weight. What of the cracked gemstones in your Shardplate? Did you place those too? No. Then maybe you did uncover something, Dalinar said with a grunt. I guess you cant be completely blamed. Then youll let me up? No. Dalinar leaned down farther. He laid a hand against the kings chest. Elhokar stopped struggling, looking up in terror. If I push, Dalinar said, you die. Your ribs crack like twigs, your heart is smashed like a grape. Nobody would blame me. They all whisper that the Blackthorn should have taken the throne for himself years ago. Your guard is loyal to me. There would be nobody to avenge you. Nobody would care. Elhokar breathed out as Dalinar pressed his hand down just slightly. Do you understand? Dalinar asked quietly. No! Dalinar sighed, then released the younger man and stood up. Elhokar inhaled with a gasp. Your paranoia may be unfounded, Dalinar said, or it may be well founded. Either way, you need to understand something. I am not your enemy. Elhokar frowned. So youre not going to kill me? Storms, no! I love you like a son, boy. Elhokar rubbed his chest. You have very odd paternal instincts. I spent years following you, Dalinar said. I gave you my loyalty, my devotion, and my counsel. I swore myself to youpromising myself, vowing to myself, that I would never covet Gavilars throne. All to keep my heart loyal. Despite this, you dont trust me. You pull a stunt like that one with the girth, implicating me, giving your own enemies position against you without knowing it. Dalinar stepped toward the king. Elhokar cringed. Well, now you know, Dalinar said, voice hard. If Id wanted to kill you, Elhokar, I could have done it a dozen times over. A hundred times over. It appears you wont accept loyalty and devotion as proof of my honesty. Well, if you act like a child, you get treated like one. You know now, for a fact, that I dont want you dead. For if I did, I would have crushed your chest and been done with it! He locked eyes with the king. Now, Dalinar said,  do you understand ? Slowly, Elhokar nodded.