Despite four other bridgemen drawing their attention, despite the other men of Bridge Four behind armored with the skeletons of fallen Parshendi, most of the archers focused on Kaladin. He was a symbol. A living banner to destroy. Kaladin spun between arrows, slapping them away with his shield. A storm raged inside him, as if his blood had been sucked away and replaced with stormwinds. It made his fingertips tingle with energy. Ahead, the Parshendi sang their angry, chanting song. The song for one who blasphemed against their dead. Kaladin stayed at the front of the decoys, letting the arrows fall close. Daring them. Taunting them. Demanding they kill him until the arrows stopped falling and the wind stilled. Kaladin came to rest, breath held to contain the storm within. The Parshendi reluctantly fell back before Sadeass force. An enormous force, as far as plateau assaults went. Thousands of men and thirty-two bridges. Despite Kaladins distraction, five bridges had been dropped, the men carrying them slaughtered. None of the soldiers rushing across the chasm had made any specific eff ort to attack the archers firing on Kaladin, but the weight of numbers had forced them away. A few gave Kaladin loathing gazes, making an odd gesture by cupping a hand to the right ear and pointing at him before finally retreating. Kaladin released his breath, Stormlight pulsing away from him. He had to walk a very fine line, drawing in enough Stormlight to stay alive, but not so much that it was visible to the watching soldiers. The Tower rose ahead of him, a slab of stone that dipped toward the west. The chasm was so wide that hed worried the men would drop the bridge into the chasm as they tried to place it. On the other side, Sadeas had arrayed his forces in a cupping shape, pushing the Parshendi back away, trying to give Dalinar an opening. Perhaps attacking this way served to protect Dalinars pristine image. He wouldnt make bridgemen die. Not directly, at least. Never mind that he stood on the backs of the men who had fallen to get Sadeas across. Their corpses were his true bridge. Kaladin! a voice called from behind. Kaladin spun. One of his men was wounded. Storm it! he thought, dashing up to Bridge Four. There was enough Stormlight still pulsing in his veins to stave off exhaustion. Hed grown complacent. Six bridge runs without a casualty. He should have realized it couldnt last. He pushed through the collected bridgemen to find Skar on the ground, holding his foot, red blood seeping between his fingers. Arrow in the foot, Skar said through gritted teeth. In the storming foot! Who gets hit in the foot?