Storming windspren, he said. They were common out on these rocky plains. He continued past the surgery pavilion, tossing the pouch of spheres to Ven. The tall man caught it deftly, making it vanish into a pocket of his voluminous white robe. The bribe would ensure that Kaladins men were served first on the battlefield, assuming there were no lighteyes who needed the attention. It was time to join the line. He sped up, jogging along, spear in hand. Nobody gave him grief for wearing trousers under his leather spearmans skirt something he did so his men could recognize him from behind. In fact, nobody gave him grief about much of anything these days. That still felt odd, after so many struggles during his first years in the army. He still didnt feel as if he belonged. His reputation set him apart, but what was he to do? It kept his men from being taunted, and after several years of dealing with disaster after disaster, he could finally pause and think . He wasnt certain he liked that. Thinking had proven dangerous lately. It had been a long while since hed taken out that rock and thought of Tien and home. He made his way to the front ranks, spotting his men right where hed told them to go. Dallet, Kaladin called, as he trotted over to the mountainous spearman who was the squads sergeant. Were soon going to have a new recruit. I need you to He trailed off. A young man, maybe fourteen, stood beside Dallet, looking tiny in his spearmans armor. Kaladin felt a flash of recall. Another lad, one with a familiar face, holding a spear he wasnt supposed to need. Two promises broken at once. He found his way here just a few minutes ago, sir, Dallet said. Ive been gettin him ready. Kaladin shook himself out of the moment. Tien was dead. But Stormfather , this new lad looked a lot like him. Well done, Kaladin said to Dallet, forcing himself to look away from Cenn. I paid good money to get that boy away from Gare. That mans so incompetent he might as well be fighting for the other side. Dallet grunted in agreement. The men would know what to do with Cenn. All right, Kaladin thought, scanning the battlefield for a good place for his men to stand their ground, lets get to it. Hed heard stories about the soldiers who fought on the Shattered Plains. The real soldiers. If you showed enough promise fighting in these border disputes, you were sent there. It was supposed to be safer therefar more soldiers, but fewer battles. So Kaladin wanted to get his squad there as soon as possible. He conferred with Dallet, picking a place to hold. Eventually, the horns