but possible. Kelek, but I hate this place, Teft said, walking beside Kaladin. I heard that once an entire bridge crew got eaten by a chasmfiend, one at a time, after it backed them into a dead end. It just sat there, picking them off as they tried to run past. Rock chuckled. If they were all eaten, then who was returning to tell this story? Teft rubbed his chin. I dunno. Maybe they just never returned. Then perhaps they fled. Deserting. No, Teft said. You cant get out of these chasms without a ladder. He glanced upward, toward the narrow rift of blue seventy feet above, following the curve of the plateau. Kaladin glanced up as well. That blue sky seemed so distant. Unreachable. Like the light of the Halls themselves. And even if you could climb out at one of the shallower areas, youd either be trapped on the Plains without a way to cross chasms, or youd be close enough to the Alethi side that the scouts would spot you crossing the permanent bridges. You could try going eastward, toward where the plateaus were worn away to the point that they were just spires. But that would take weeks of walking, and would require surviving multiple highstorms. You ever been in a slot canyon when rains come, Rock? Teft asked, perhaps thinking along the same lines. No, Rock replied. On the Peaks, we have not these things. They only exist where foolish men choose to live.  You live here, Rock, Kaladin noted. And I am foolish, the large Horneater said, chuckling. Did you not notice this thing? These last two days had changed him a great deal. He was more affable, returning in some measure to what Kaladin assumed was his normal personality. I was talking , Teft said, about slot canyons. You want to guess what will happen if we get trapped down here in a highstorm? Lots of water, I guess, Rock said. Lots of water, looking to go any place it can, Teft said. It gathers into enormous waves and goes crashing through these confined spaces with enough force to toss boulders. In fact, an ordinary rain will feel like a highstorm down here. A highstormwell, this would probably be the worst place in Roshar to be when one hits. Rock frowned at that, glancing upward. Best not to be caught in the storm, then.