He lay on his back as Stormlight rose from him more quickly now that he was breathing. He lay there as the last of it burned away. Syl landed on his chest. Kaladin? What was that? Me being an idiot, he replied, sitting up and feeling an ache in his back and a sharp pain in his elbow where hed hit the ground. Teft said that the Radiants were able to walk on walls, and I felt so alive. Syl walked on air, stepping as if down a set of stairs. I dont think youre ready for that yet. Dont be so risky. If you die, I go stupid again, you know. Ill try to keep that in mind, Kaladin said, climbing to his feet. Maybe Ill remove dying from my list of tasks to do this week. She snorted, zipping into the air, becoming a ribbon again. Come on, hurry up. She shot off down the chasm. Kaladin collected the dun sphere, then dug into the pouch for another one to provide light. Had he drained them all? No. The others still glowed strongly. He selected a ruby mark, then hurried after Syl. She led him to a narrow chasm that contained a small group of fresh Parshendi corpses. This is morbid, Kaladin, Syl noted, standing above the bodies. I know. Do you know where Lopen went? I sent him scavenging nearby, fetching the things you asked him for. Bring him, please. Syl sighed, but zipped away. She always got testy when he made her appear to someone other than him. Kaladin knelt down. Parshendi all looked so similar. That same square face, those blockyalmost rocklikefeatures. Some had the beards with bits of gemstone tied in them. Those glowed, but not brightly. Cut gemstones held Stormlight better. Why was that? Rumors in camp claimed that the Parshendi took the wounded humans away and ate them. Rumors also said they left their dead, not caring for the fallen, never building them proper pyres. But that last part was false. They did care about their dead. They all seemed to have the same sensibility that Shen did; he threw a fit every time one of the bridgemen so much as touched a Parshendi corpse. Id better be right about this, Kaladin thought grimly, slipping a knife off one of the Parshendi bodies. It was beautifully ornamented and forged, the steel lined with glyphs Kaladin didnt recognize. He began to cut at the strange breastplate armor that grew from the corpses chest. Kaladin quickly determined that Parshendi physiology was very different from human physiology. Small blue ligaments held the breastplate to the skin underneath. It was attached all the way across. He continued working. There wasnt much blood; it had pooled at the corpses back or leaked away. His knife