weight behind his weapon and intentionally overcorrecting as the Parshendis next blow came. The Blades met with a furious clang, throwing off a shower of sparks like a bucket of molten metal dashed into the air. Dalinar recovered quickly and threw himself forward, trying to slam his shoulder into his enemys chest. The Parshendi was still full of power, however, his Plate uncracked. He got out of the way and quite nearly hit Dalinar on the back. Dalinar twisted just in time. Then he turned and leaped onto a small rock formation, then stepped to a higher ledge and managed to reach the top. The Parshendi followed, as Dalinar had hoped. The precarious footing raised the stakeswhich was just fine with him. A single blow could ruin Dalinar. That meant taking risks. As the Parshendi neared the top of the formation, Dalinar attacked, using the advantage of surer footing and high ground. The Parshendi didnt bother dodging. He took a hit to the helm, which cracked, but gained a chance to swing at Dalinars legs. Dalinar leaped backward, feeling painfully sluggish. He barely got out of the way, and wasnt able to get in a second strike as the Parshendi climbed atop the formation. The Parshendi man made an aggressive thrust. Setting his jaw, Dalinar raised his forearm to block and stepped into the attack, praying to the Heralds that his forearm plate would deflect the blow. The Parshendi blade connected, shattering the Plate, sending a shock up Dalinars arm. The gauntlet on his fist suddenly felt like a lead weight, but Dalinar kept moving, swinging his blade for his own attack. Not at the Parshendis armor, but at the stone beneath him. Even as the molten shards of Dalinars forearm plate sprayed in the air, he sheared through the rock shelf under his opponents feet. The entire section broke free, sending the Shardbearer tumbling backward toward the ground. He hit with a crash. Dalinar slammed his fistthe one with the broken armguardinto the ground and released the gauntlet. It unlatched and he pulled his hand free into the air, sweat making it feel cold. He left the gauntletit wouldnt work properly now that the forearm piece was goneand roared as he swung his Blade single-handed. He sliced through another chunk of the rock and sent it falling down toward the Shardbearer. The Parshendi stumbled to his feet, but the rock smashed down on top of him, sending out a splash of Stormlight and a deep cracking sound. Dalinar climbed down, trying to get to the Parshendi while he was still. Unfortunately,