Shallan, a few weeks after his passing, some men visited here claiming to be friends of our father. In private with me, they implied they knew of Fathers Soulcaster and suggested strongly that I was to return it to them. Shallan frowned. She still carried her fathers broken Soulcaster in the safepouch of her sleeve. Return it? she wrote. We never did figure out where Father got it, Nan Balat sent. Shallan, he was involved in something. Those maps, the things Luesh said, and now this. We continue to pretend that Father is alive, and occasionally he gets letters from other lighteyes that speak of vague plans. I think he was going to make a play to become highprince. And he was supported by some very powerful forces. These men who came, they were dangerous, Shallan. The type of men you do not cross. And they want their Soulcaster back. Whoever they are, I suspect they gave it to Father so he could create wealth and make a bid for the succession. They know hes dead. I believe that if we dont return a working Soulcaster to them, we could all be in serious danger. You need to bring Jasnahs fabrial to us. Well quickly use it to create new quarries of valuable stone, and then we can give it up to these men. Shallan, you must succeed. I was hesitant about this plan when you suggested it, but other avenues are quickly vanishing. Shallan felt a chill. She read over the paragraphs a few times, then wrote, If Luesh is dead, then we dont know how to use the Soulcaster. That is problematic. I know, Nan Balat sent. See if you can figure that out. This is dangerous, Shallan. I know it is. Im sorry. She took a deep breath. It must be done, she wrote. Here, Nan Balat sent. I wanted to show you something. Have you ever seen this symbol? The sketch that followed was crude. Eylita wasnt much of an artist. Fortunately, it was a simple picturethree diamond shapes in a curious pattern. Ive never seen it, Shallan wrote. Why? Luesh wore a pendant with this symbol on it, Nan Balat sent. We found it on his body. And one of the men who came searching for the Soulcaster had the same pattern tattooed on his hand, just below his thumb. Curious, Shallan wrote. So Luesh Yes, Nan Balat sent. Despite what he said, I think he must have been the one who brought the Soulcaster to Father. Luesh was involved in this, perhaps as liaison between Father and the people backing him. I tried to suggest that they could back me instead, but the men just laughed. They did not stay long or give a specific time by which the Soulcaster must be returned. I doubt theyd be