He wouldnt stay that way long without antiseptic. None of the wounds looked infected with rotspren yet, but it would only be a matter of time in these dirty confines. He needed some of the apothecarys salves. But how? He checked the other two. Hobber was smiling openly. He was round-faced and lean, with a gap between his teeth and short, black hair. Thank you, he said. Thank you for saving me. Kaladin grunted, inspecting the mans leg. Youll be fine, but you wont be able to walk for a few weeks. Ill bring food from the mess hall for you. Thank you, Hobber whispered, taking Kaladins hand, clutching it. He actually seemed to be tearing up. That smile forced back the gloom, made the aches and soreness fade. Kaladins father had described that kind of smile. Those smiles werent why Lirin had become a surgeon, but they were why hed remained one. Rest, Kaladin said, and keep that wound clean. We dont want to attract any rotspren. Let me know if you see any. They are small and red, like tiny insects. Hobber nodded eagerly and Kaladin moved to Dabbid. The youthful bridgeman looked just as he had the day before, staring forward, eyes unfocused. He was sitting like that when I fell asleep too, sir, Hobber said. Its like he hasnt moved all night. Gives me the chills, it does. Kaladin snapped his fingers in front of Dabbids eyes. The man jumped at the sound, focusing on the fingers, following them as Kaladin moved his hand. Hes been hit in the head, I think, Hobber said. No, Kaladin said. Its battle shock. It will wear off. I hope. If you say so, sir, Hobber said, scratching at the side of his head. Kaladin stood and pushed the door open all the way, lighting the room. It was a clear day, the sun just barely over the horizon. Already, sounds drifted from the warcamp, a blacksmith working early, hammer on metal. Chulls trumpeting in the stables. The air was cool, chilly, clinging to the vestiges of night. It smelled clean and fresh. Spring weather. You got up, Kaladin told himself. Might as well get on with it. He forced himself to go out and do his stretches, body complaining at each motion. Then he checked his own wound. It wasnt too bad, though infection could make it worse. Stormwinds take that apothecary! he thought, fetching a ladle full of water from the bridgeman barrel, using it to wash his wound. He immediately regretted the bitter thought against the elderly apothecary. What was the man to do? Give Kaladin the antiseptic for free? It was Highprince Sadeas he should be cursing. Sadeas was responsible for the wound, and was