reason to hold off on making a decision that would change his life forever. Danlan looked at him, prepared to dictate his words. Why did Jasnah want this story again? Hadnt she written an account of these very events in her biography of her father? Well, she would eventually tell him why, andif her past revelations were any indicationher current project would be of great worth. He wished Elhokar had received a measure of his sisters wisdom. These are painful memories, Jasnah. I wish Id never convinced your father to go on that expedition. If wed never discovered the Parshendi, then they couldnt have assassinated him. The first meeting happened when we were exploring a forest that wasnt on the maps. This was south of the Shattered Plains, in a valley about two weeks march from the Drying Sea. During Gavilars youth, only two things had thrilled himconquest and hunting. When he hadnt been seeking one, it had been the other. Suggesting the hunt had seemed rational at the time. Gavilar had been acting oddly, losing his thirst for battle. Men had started to say that he was weak. Dalinar had wanted to remind his brother of the good times in their youth. Hence the hunt for a legendary chasmfiend. Your father wasnt with me when I ran across them, Dalinar continued, thinking back. Camping on humid, forested hills. Interrogating Natan natives via translators. Looking for scat or broken trees. I was leading scouts up a tributary of the Deathbend River while your father scouted downstream. We found the Parshendi camped on the other side. I didnt believe it at first. Parshmen. Camped , free and organized. And they carried weapons. Not crude ones, either. Swords, spears with carved hafts He trailed off. Gavilar hadnt believed either, when Dalinar told him. There was no such thing as a free parshman tribe. They were servants, and always had been servants. Did they have Shardblades then? Danlan said. Dalinar hadnt realized that Jasnah had made a response. No. A scratched reply eventually came. But they have them now. When did you first see a Parshendi Shardbearer? After Gavilars death, Dalinar said. He made the connection. Theyd always wondered why Gavilar had wanted a treaty with the Parshendi. They wouldnt have needed one just to harvest the greatshells on the Shattered Plains; the Parshendi hadnt lived on the Plains then. Dalinar felt a chill. Could his brother have known that these Parshendi had access to Shardblades? Had he made the treaty hoping to get out of them where