or gathering their weapons. Since Gavilars death, very little effort had been given to studying the Parshendi. Everyone just wanted them dead, and if there was one thing the Alethi were good at, it was killing. And youre supposed to be killing them now, Dalinar told himself, not analyzing their culture. But he did decide to have his soldiers collect a few bodies for the scholars. He charged toward another section of the battlefield, Shardblade before him in two hands, making certain not to outpace his soldiers. To the south, he could see Adolins banner flying as he led his division against the Parshendi there. The lad had been uncharacteristically reserved lately. Being wrong about Sadeas seemed to have made him more contemplative. On the west side, Sadeass own banner flew proudly, Sadeass forces keeping the Parshendi from the chrysalis. Hed arrived first, as before, engaging the Parshendi so Dalinars companies could arrive. Dalinar had considered cutting out the gemheart so the Alethi could retreat, but why end the battle that quickly? He and Sadeas both felt the real point of their alliance was to crush as many Parshendi as possible. The more they killed, the faster this war would be through. And so far, Dalinars plan was working. The two armies complemented one another. Dalinars assaults had been too slow, and hed allowed the Parshendi to position themselves too well. Sadeas was fastmore so now that he could leave men behind and concentrate fully on speedand he was frighteningly effective at getting men onto the plateaus to fight, but his men werent trained as well as Dalinars. So if Sadeas could arrive first, then hold out long enough for Dalinar to get his men across, the superior trainingand superior Shardsof his forces worked like a hammer against the Parshendi, smashing them against Sadeass anvil. It was still by no means easy. The Parshendi fought like chasmfiends. Dalinar crashed against them, swinging out with his blade, slaying Parshendi on all sides. He couldnt help but feel a grudging respect for the Parshendi. Few men dared assault a Shardbearer directlyat least not without the entire weight of their army forcing them forward, almost against their will. These Parshendi attacked with bravery. Dalinar spun, laying about him, the Thrill surging within. With an ordinary sword, a fighter focused on controlling his blows, striking and expecting recoil. You wanted quick, rapid strikes with small arcs. A Shardblade was different. The Blade was enormous, yet remarkably light. There was never recoil; landing a blow felt nearly like passing the blade through the air itself. The trick was to control momentum and keep the blade moving.