twinkle of a watchpost. Do they watch us, from out there? Elhokar asked as Dalinar joined him. We know their raiding bands move at night, Your Majesty, Dalinar said, resting one hand on the iron railing. I cant help but think they watch us. The kings uniform had the traditional long coat with buttons up the sides, but it was loose and relaxed, and ruffled lace poked out of the collar and cuffs. His trousers were solid blue, and were cut in the same baggy fashion as Ruthars. It all looked so informal to Dalinar. Increasingly, their soldiers were being led by a slack group who dressed in lace and spent their evenings at feasts. This is what Gavilar foresaw, Dalinar thought. This is why he grew so insistent that we follow the Codes. You look thoughtful, Uncle, Elhokar said. Just considering the past, Your Majesty. The past is irrelevant. I only look forward. Dalinar was not certain he agreed with either statement. I sometimes think I should be able to see the Parshendi, Elhokar said. I feel that if I stare long enough, I will find them, pin them down so I can challenge them. I wish theyd just fight me, like men of honor. If they were men of honor, Dalinar said, clasping his hands behind his back, then they would not have killed your father as they did. Why did they do it, do you suppose? Dalinar shook his head. That question has churned in my head, over and over, like a boulder tumbling down a hill. Did we off end their honor? Was it some cultural misunderstanding? A cultural misunderstanding would imply that they have a culture. Primitive brutes. Who knows why a horse kicks or an axehound bites? I shouldnt have asked. Dalinar didnt reply. Hed felt that same disdain, that same anger, in the months following Gavilars assassination. He could understand Elhokars desire to dismiss these strange, wildland parshmen as little more than animals. But hed seen them during those early days. Interacted with them. They were primitive, yes, but not brutes. Not stupid. We never really understood them, he thought. I guess thats the crux of the problem. Elhokar, he said softly. It may be time to ask ourselves some difficult questions. Such as? Such as how long we will continue this war. Elhokar started. He turned, looking at Dalinar. Well keep fighting until the Vengeance Pact is satisfied and my father is avenged!