chest, throwing the body a good twenty feet through the air. Hed learned to be wary of Parshendi who werent fully incapacitated. Dalinar lowered his hands and began to resummon his Shardblade. He felt strong again, passion for battle returning to him. I shouldnt feel bad for killing the Parshendi, he thought. This is right. He paused, noticing something. What was that on the next plateau over? It looked like Like a second Parshendi army. Several groups of his scouts were dashing toward the main battle lines, but Dalinar could guess the news they brought. Stormfather! he cursed, pointing with his Shardblade. Pass the warning! A second army approaches! Several men scattered in accordance to his command. We should have expected this, Dalinar thought. We started bringing two armies to a plateau, so they have done the same. But that implied that they had limited themselves before. Did they do it because they realized that the battlefields left little room for maneuvering? Or was it for speed? But that didnt make sensethe Alethi had to worry about bridges as choke points, slowing them more and more if they brought more troops. But the Parshendi could jump the chasms. So why commit fewer troops than their all? Curse it all, he thought with frustration. We know so little about them! He shoved his Shardblade into the rock beside him, placing it intentionally so that it didnt vanish. He began calling out orders. His honor guard formed around him, ushering in scouts and sending out runners. For a short time, he became a tactical general rather than an advance warrior. It took time to change their battlefield strategy. An army was like a massive chull at times, lumbering along, slow to react. Before his orders could be executed, the new Parshendi force began crossing over onto the north side. That was where Sadeas was fighting. Dalinar couldnt get a good view, and scout reports were taking too long. He glanced to the side; there was a tall rock formation nearby. It had uneven sides, making it look a little like a pile of boards stacked one atop another. He grabbed his Shardblade in the middle of a report and ran across the stony ground, smashing a few Rockbuds beneath his plated boots. The Cobalt Guard and the messengers followed quickly. At the rock formation, Dalinar tossed his Blade aside, letting it dissolve to smoke. He threw himself up and grabbed the rock, scaling the formation. Seconds later, he heaved himself up onto its flat top. The battlefield stretched out below him. The main Parshendi army was a