Dalinar said. We are soldiers at war, not courtiers at a ball. The Shattered Plains are quickly becoming a destination for foreign dignitaries. It is important to present ourselves properly. He raised a finger to Dalinar. If I am to accept your moral superiority, my friend, then perhaps it is time for you to accept my sense of fashion. One might note that you judge people by their clothing even more than I do. Dalinar fell silent. That comment stung in its truthfulness. Still, if dignitaries were going to meet with the highprinces on the Shattered Plains, was it too much to ask for them to find an efficient group of warcamps led by men who at least looked like generals? Dalinar settled back to watch the match end. By his count, it was time for Adolins bout. The two lighteyes who had been fighting bowed to the king, then withdrew into a tent on the side of the dueling grounds. A moment later, Adolin stepped out onto the sand, wearing his deep blue Shardplate. He carried his helm under his arm, his blond-and-black hair a stylish mess. He raised a gauntleted hand to Dalinar and bowed his head to the king, then put on his helm. The man who walked out behind him wore Shardplate painted yellow. Brightlord Resi was the only full Shardbearer in Highprince Thanadals army though their warcamp had three men who carried only the Blade or the Plate. Thanadal himself had neither. It wasnt uncommon for a highprince to rely on his finest warriors as Shardbearers; it made sound sense, particularly if you were the sort of general who preferred to stay behind the lines and direct tactics. In Thanadals own princedom, the tradition for centuries had been to appoint the holder of Resis Shards as something known as the Royal Defender. Thanadal had recently been vocal about Dalinars faults, and so Adolin in a moderately subtle movehad challenged the highprinces star Shardbearer to a friendly bout. Few duels were for Shards; in this case, losing wouldnt cost either man anything other than statistics in the rankings. The match drew an unusual amount of attention, and the small arena filled over the next quarter hour while the duelists stretched and prepared. More than one woman set up a board to sketch or write impressions of the bout. Thanadal himself didnt attend. The bout began as the highjudge in attendance, Lady Istow, called for the combatants to summon their Blades. Elhokar leaned forward again, intent, as Resi and Adolin circled one another on the sand, Shardblades materializing. Dalinar found himself leaning forward as well, though he did feel a stab of shame. According to the Codes, most duels should be avoided when Alethkar was at war. There was a fine line between sparring for practice and dueling another man for an insult, potentially leaving important officers wounded. Resi stood in Stonestance, his Shardblade held before him in two hands,