And you think Im a curse? she asked him. IWell, you said youre part of it, and She strode forward, pointing at him, a tiny, irate woman hanging in the air. So you think Ive caused all of this? Your failures? The deaths? Kaladin didnt respond. He realized almost immediately that silence might be the worst response. Sylsurprisingly human in her emotionsspun in the air with a wounded look and zipped away, forming a ribbon of light. Im overreacting, he told himself. He was just so unsettled. He leaned back against the wall, hand to head. Before he had time to collect his thoughts, shadows darkened the entry to the alleyway. Teft and Lopen. Rock talkers! Lopen said. You really shine in shade, gancho! Teft gripped Lopens shoulder. Hes not going to tell anyone, lad. Ill make certain of it. Yeah, gancho, Lopen said. I swore Id say nothing. You can trust a Herdazian. Kaladin looked at the two, overwhelmed. He pushed past them, running out of the alley and across the lumberyard, fleeing from watching eyes. By the time night drew close, the light had long since stopped streaming from Kaladins body. It had faded like a fire going out, and had only taken a few minutes to vanish. Kaladin walked southward along the edge of the Shattered Plains, in that transitional area between the warcamps and the Plains themselves. In some areas like at the staging area near Sadeass lumbercampthere was a soft slope leading down between the two. At other points, there was a short ridge, eight or so feet tall. He passed one of these now, rocks to his right, open Plains to his left. Hollows, crevasses, and nooks scored the rock. Some shadowed sections here still hid pools of water from the highstorms days ago. Creatures still scuttled around the rocks, though the cooling evening air would soon drive them to hide. He passed a place pocked with small, water-filled holes; cremlings multilegged, bearing tiny claws, their elongated bodies plated with carapace lapped and fed at the edges. A small tentacle snapped out, yanking one down into the hole. Probably a grasper. Grass grew up the side of the ridge beside him, and the blades peeked from their holes. Bunches of fingermoss sprouted like flowers amid the green. The bright pink and purple fingermoss tendrils were reminiscent of tentacles