Hobber and Peet, their wounds sufficiently healed, had started practicing with the others. That was good. Theyd be drawing pay again. The men walked up to Kaladin, silent in their leather vests. They kept their distance, hesitant, as if he were fragile. Or holy. Kaladin was bare-chested, his nearly healed wounds exposed, and wore only his knee-length bridgemans trousers. You really need to practice what to do if one of you trips or stumbles, men, Kaladin said. When Moash stopped abruptly, you all about fell over. That could be a disaster on the field. They stared at him, incredulous, and he couldnt help but smile. In a moment, they crowded around him, laughing and thumping him on the back. It wasnt an entirely appropriate welcome for a sick man, particularly when Rock did it, but Kaladin did appreciate their enthusiasm. Only Teft didnt join in. The aging bridgeman stood at the side, arms folded. He seemed concerned. Teft? Kaladin asked. You all right? Teft snorted, but showed a hint of a grin. I just figure those lads dont bathe often enough for me to want to get close enough for a hug. No offense. Kaladin laughed. I understand. His last bath had been the highstorm. The highstorm. The other bridgemen continued to laugh, asking how he felt, proclaiming that Rock would have to fix something extra special for their nightly fireside meal. Kaladin smiled and nodded, assuring them he felt well, but he was remembering the storm. He recalled it distinctly. Holding to the ring atop the building, his head down and eyes closed against the pelting torrent. He remembered Syl, standing protectively before him, as if she could turn back the storm itself. He couldnt see her about now. Where was she? He also remembered the face. The Stormfather himself? Surely not. A delusion. Yesyes, hed certainly been delusional. Memories of deathspren were blended with relived parts of his lifeand both mixed with strange, sudden shocks of strengthicy cold, but refreshing. It had been like the cold air of a crisp morning after a long night in a stuffy room, or like rubbing the sap of gulket leaves on sore muscles, making them feel warm and cold at the same time. He could remember those moments so clearly. What had caused them? The fever? How long? he said, checking over the bridgemen, counting them. Thirty- three, counting Lopen and the silent Dabbid. Almost all were accounted for. Impossible. If his ribs were healed, then he must have been unconscious for