be put down. They were soon outnumbered by men who began boiling out of side gates and rushing toward the weapons. They are the first, a voice said. Dalinar looked up to see that one of the knights had stopped beside him. It was the man who looked Alethi. He looked over his shoulder at the crowd gathering around the blades. Men had begun to scream at one another, everyone scrambling to get a Blade before they were all claimed. They are the first, the Radiant said, turning to Dalinar. Dalinar recognized the depth of that voice. It was the voice that always spoke to him in these visions. They were the first, and they were also the last. Is this the Day of Recreance? Dalinar asked. These events will go down in history, the Radiant said. They will be infamous. You will have many names for what happened here. But why? Dalinar asked. Please. Why did they abandon their duty? The figure seemed to study him. I have said I that cannot be of much help to you. The Night of Sorrows will come, and the True Desolation. The Everstorm. Then answer my questions! Dalinar said. Read the book. Unite them. The book? The Way of Kings ? The figure turned and walked from him, joining the other Radiants as they crossed the stone plain, walking toward places unknown. Dalinar looked back at the melee of soldiers rushing for Blades. Many had already been claimed. There werent enough Blades for everyone, and some had begun raising theirs up, using them to fend off those who got too close. As he watched, a bellowing officer with a Blade was attacked by two men behind him. The glow from within the weapons had completely vanished. The killing of that officer made others bold. Other skirmishes started, men scrambling to attack those who had Blades, hoping to get one. Eyes began to burn. Screams, shouts, death. Dalinar watched until he found himself in his quarters, tied to his chair. Renarin and Adolin watched nearby, looking tense. Dalinar blinked, listening to the rain of the passing highstorm on the roof. Ive returned, he said to his sons. You may calm yourselves. Adolin helped untie the ropes while Renarin stood up and fetched Dalinar a cup of orange wine. Once Dalinar was free, Adolin stood back. The youth folded his arms. Renarin came back, his face pale. He looked to be having one of his episodes of weakness; indeed, his legs were trembling. As soon as Dalinar took the cup, the youth sat down in a chair and rested his head in his hands. Dalinar sipped the sweet wine. He had seen wars in his visions before. He