He could only think of her. Beautiful, insightful, delicate yet strong at once. He clung to her, something he could hold onto as the rest of the world churned around him. Eventually, he broke the kiss. She looked up at him, dazed. Passion-spren, like tiny flakes of crystalline snow, floated down in the air around them. Guilt flooded him again. He tried gently to push her away, but she clung to him, holding on tight. Navani, he said. Hush. She pressed her head against his chest. We cant Hush, she said, more insistently. He sighed, but let himself hold her. Something is going wrong in this world, Dalinar, Navani said softly. The king of Jah Keved was assassinated. I heard it just today. He was killed by a Shin Shardbearer in white clothing. Stormfather! Dalinar said. Somethings going on, she said. Something bigger than our war here, something bigger than Gavilar. Have you heard of the twisted things men say when they die? Most ignore it, but surgeons are talking. And stormwardens whisper that the highstorms are growing more powerful. I have heard, he said, finding it difficult to get the words out, intoxicated by her as he was. My daughter seeks something, Navani said. She frightens me sometimes. Shes so intense. I honestly believe shes the most intelligent person Ive ever known. And the things she searches for Dalinar, she believes that something very dangerous is near. The sun approaches the horizon. The Everstorm comes. The True Desolation. The Night of Sorrows. I need you, Navani said. Ive known it for years, though I feared it would destroy you with guilt, so I fled. But I couldnt stay away. Not with the way they treat me. Not with what is happening to the world. Im terrified, Dalinar, and I need you. Gavilar was not the man everyone thought him to be. I was fond of him, but he Please, Dalinar said, dont speak ill of him. Very well. Blood of my fathers! He couldnt get her scent out of his head. He felt paralyzed, holding to her like a man clinging to a stone in the stormwinds. She looked up at him. Well, let it be saidthenthat I was fond of Gavilar. But Im more than fond of you. And Im tired of waiting.