Never enough. You bother one of us, you bother us all. Thats something you strawheads never seem to get. No offense or anything, gancho. Kaladin raised an eyebrow. Dont make trouble for the soldier. Not today. Ill make enough of that myself here soon. Lopen sighed, but nodded. All right. For you. He held up a waterskin. You sure you dont want any? Kaladin didnt; his stomach was too unsettled. But he made himself take the waterskin back and drink a few mouthfuls. Before long, the time came to cross and pull the bridge up for the last run. The assault. Sadeass soldiers were forming ranks, lighteyes riding back and forth, calling orders. Matal waved Kaladins crew forward. Dalinar Kholins army had fallen behind, coming more slowly because of his larger numbers. Kaladin took his place at the very front of his bridge. Ahead, the Parshendi were lined up with bows on the edge of their plateau, staring down the oncoming assault. Were they singing already? Kaladin thought he could hear their voices. Moash was on Kaladins right, Rock on his left. Only three on the deathline, because of how shorthanded they were. Hed put Shen in the very back, so he wouldnt see what Kaladin was about to do. Im going to duck out from underneath once we start moving, Kaladin told them. Rock, you take over. Keep them running. Very well, Rock said. It will be hard to carry without you. We have so few men, and we are very weak. Youll manage. Youll have to. Kaladin couldnt see Rocks face, not positioned under the bridge as they were, but his voice sounded troubled. This thing you will try, is dangerous? Perhaps. Can I help? Im afraid not, my friend. But it strengthens me to hear you ask. Rock didnt get a chance to reply. Matal yelled for the bridge crews to go. Arrows shot overhead to distract the Parshendi. Bridge Four broke into a run. And Kaladin ducked down and dashed out in front of them. Lopen was waiting to the side, and he tossed Kaladin the sack of armor. Matal screamed at Kaladin in a panic, but the bridge crews were already in motion. Kaladin focused on his goal, protecting Bridge Four, and sucked in sharply. Stormlight flooded him from the pouch at his waist, but he didnt draw too much. Just enough to give him a jolt of energy. Syl zipped in front of him, a ripple in the air, nearly invisible. Kaladin whipped the tie off the sack, pulling out the vest and throwing it awkwardly over his head. He ignored the ties at the side, getting on the helm as he leaped over a