chance. That sounds complicated. Merchants is like mercenaries, my gammer always said. Only difference is that merchants will take your head off, then pretend to be your friend all the same. This from a man who had just spent the evening cheating a group of guards at cards. Well, you have my thanks, anyway. Wasnt nothing. It was fun, though I cant believe you paid what you did. Its just a bunch of wood. I could find some driftwood and put some funny marks on it. Would you pay me pure spheres for that too? I cant offer that, she said, fishing in her satchel. She took out the picture shed drawn of Yalb and the porter. But please, take this, with my thanks. Yalb took the picture and stepped up beneath a nearby lantern to get a look. He laughed, cocking his head, smiling broadly. Stormfather! Aint that something? Looks like Im seeing myself in a polished plate, it does. I cant take this, Brightness! Please. I insist. She did, however, blink her eyes, taking a Memory of him standing there, one hand on his chin as he studied the picture of himself. Shed redraw him later. After what hed done for her, she dearly wanted him in her collection. Yalb carefully tucked the picture between the pages of a book, then hefted the bag and continued. They stepped back onto the main roadway. Nomonthe middle moonhad begun to rise, bathing the city in pale blue light. Staying up this late had been a rare privilege for her in her fathers house, but these city people around them barely seemed to notice the late hour. What a strange place this city was. Back to the ship now? Yalb asked. No, Shallan said, taking a deep breath. Back to the Conclave. He raised an eyebrow, but led her back. Once there, she bid Yalb farewell, reminding him to take his picture. He did so, wishing her luck before hastening from the Conclave, probably worried about meeting the guardsmen hed cheated earlier. Shallan had a servant carry her books, and made her way down the hallway back to the Veil. Just inside the ornate iron doors, she caught the attention of a master-servant. Yes, Brightness? the man asked. Most of the alcoves were now dim, and patient servants were returning tomes to their safe place beyond the crystal walls. Shaking off her fatigue, Shallan counted up the rows. There was still a light