the dark, cold sky. It had all come upon her so quickly. I Soulcast, she realized again. I did it! Did it have something to do with the creatures? But shed begun seeing them in her drawings before shed ever stolen the Soulcaster. Howwhat? She looked down at her safehand and the Soulcaster hidden in the pouch inside her sleeve. I didnt put it on, she thought. Yet I used it anyway. Shallan? It was Jasnahs voice. Just outside Shallans room. The princess must have followed her. Shallan felt a spike of terror as she saw a line of blood leaking toward the doorway. It was almost there, and would pass underneath in a heartbeat. Why did it have to be blood? Nauseated, she leaped to her feet, slippers soaking up the red liquid. Shallan? Jasnah said, voice closer. What was that sound? Shallan looked frantically at the blood, then at the sketchpad, filled with pictures of the strange creatures. What if they did have something to do with the Soulcasting? Jasnah would recognize them. There was a shadow under the door. She panicked, tucking the sketchpad away in her trunk. But the blood, it would condemn her. There was enough that only a life-threatening wound could have created it. Jasnah would see. Shed know. Blood where there should be none? One of the Ten Essences? Jasnah was going to know what Shallan had done! A thought struck Shallan. It wasnt a brilliant thought, but it was a way out, and it was the only thing that occurred to her. She went to her knees and grabbed a shard of the broken glass pitcher in her safehand, through the fabric of her sleeve. She took a breath and pulled up her right sleeve, then used the glass to cut a shallow gash in her skin. In the panic of the moment, it barely even hurt. Blood welled out. As the doorknob turned and the door opened, Shallan dropped the glass shard and lay on her side. She closed her eyes, feigning unconsciousness. The door swung open. Jasnah gasped, immediately calling for help. She rushed to Shallans side, grabbing her arm and putting pressure on the wound. Shallan mumbled, as if she were barely conscious, gripping her safepouchand the Soulcaster insidewith her safehand. They wouldnt open it, would they? She pulled her arm closer to her chest, cowering silently as more footsteps and calls sounded, servants and parshmen running into the room, Jasnah shouting for more help. This, Shallan thought, will not end well.