Its good that youre already prepared, Kaladin said to the men. Because we dont have the six weeks I was given to train a new batch of recruits. In six weeks, Sadeas will have half of us dead. I intend to see you all drinking mudbeer in a tavern somewhere safe by the time six weeks have passed. Several of them gave a kind of half-cheer at that. Well have to be fast, Kaladin said. Ill have to push you hard. Thats our only option. He glanced at the spear haft. The first thing you need to learn is that its all right to care. The twenty-three bridgemen stood in a double row. All had wanted to come. Even Leyten, who had been hurt so badly. They didnt have any who were wounded so badly they couldnt walk, although Dabbid continued to stare off at nothing. Rock stood with his arms folded, apparently with no intention of learning to fight. Shen, the parshman, stood at the very back. He looked at the ground. Kaladin didnt intend to put a spear in his hands. Several of the bridgemen seemed confused by what Kaladin had said about emotions, though Teft just raised an eyebrow and Moash yawned. What do you mean? Drehy asked. He was a lanky blond man, long-limbed and muscled. He spoke with a faint accent; he was from somewhere far to the west, called Rianal. A lot of soldiers, Kaladin said, running his thumb across the pole, feeling the grain of the wood, they think that you fight the best if youre passionless and cold. I think thats stormleavings. Yes, you need to be focused. Yes, emotions are dangerous. But if you dont care about anything, what are you? An animal, driven only to kill. Our passion is what makes us human. We have to fight for a reason. So I say that its all right to care. Well talk about controlling your fear and anger, but remember this as the first lesson I taught you. Several of the bridgemen nodded. Most seemed confused still. Kaladin remembered being there, wondering why Tukks wasted time talking about emotions. Hed thought he understood emotionhis drive to learn the spear had come because of his emotions. Vengeance. Hatred. A lust for the power to exact retribution on Varth and the soldiers of his squad. He looked up, trying to banish those memories. No, the bridgemen didnt understand his words about caring, but perhaps they would remember later, as Kaladin had. The second lesson, Kaladin said, slapping the decapitated spear to the rock beside him with a crack that echoed down the chasm, is more utilitarian. Before you can learn to fight, youre going to have to learn how to stand. He dropped the spear. The bridgemen watched him with frowns of disappointment. Kaladin fell into a basic spearmans stance, feet wide apartbut not too wideturned sideways, knees bent in a loose crouch. Skar, I want you to come