Sadeas sighed, looking at Elhokar. Your Majesty. I was actually planning to make an announcement regarding this very subject tonight. I was going to wait until later, but if Dalinar is going to be so insistent I am, Dalinar said. Oh, go ahead, Sadeas, the king said. You have me curious now. The king waved to a servant, who rushed to quiet the flutist while another servant tapped the chimes to call for silence. In moments, the people on the island stilled. Sadeas gave Dalinar a grimace that somehow conveyed the message, You demanded this, old friend. Dalinar folded his arms, keeping his gaze fixed on Sadeas. His six Cobalt Guardsmen stepped up behind him, and Dalinar noticed that a group of similar lighteyed officers from Sadeass warcamp were listening nearby. Well, I wasnt planning to have such an audience, Sadeas said. Mostly, this was planned for Your Majesty only. Unlikely, Dalinar thought, trying to suppress his anxiety. What would he do if Adolin was right and Sadeas charged him with trying to assassinate Elhokar? It would, indeed, be the end of Alethkar. Dalinar would not go quietly, and the warcamps would turn against one another. The nervous peace that had held them together for the last decade would come to an end. Elhokar would never be able to hold them together. Also, if it turned to battle, Dalinar would not fare well. The others were alienated from him; hed have enough trouble facing Sadeasif several of the others joined against him, he would fall, horribly outnumbered. He could see now Adolin thought it an incredible act of foolishness to have listened to the visions. And yet, in a powerfully surreal moment, Dalinar felt that hed done the correct thing. Hed never felt it as strongly as at that moment, preparing to be condemned. Sadeas, dont weary me with your sense of drama, Elhokar said. Theyre listening. Im listening. Dalinar looks like hes ready to burst a vein in his forehead. Speak. Very well, Sadeas said, giving his wine to a servant. My very first task as Highprince of Information was to discover the true nature of the attempt on His Majestys life during the greatshell hunt. He waved a hand, motioning to one of his men, who hurried away. Another stepped forward, handing Sadeas the broken leather strap. I took this strap to three separate leatherworkers in three different warcamps. Each came to the same conclusion. It was cut. The leather is relatively new, and has been well cared for, as proven by the lack of cracking