to fuzz and distort. Why did you lie to me? Dalinar demanded of the open darkness. I did what you said, and I was betrayed! Unite them. The sun approaches the horizon. The Everstorm comes. The True Desolation. The Night of Sorrows. I need answers! Dalinar said. I dont trust you any longer. If you want me to listen to you, youll need to The vision changed. He spun about, finding that he was still on an open plain of rock, but the normal sun was in the sky. The stone field looked like an ordinary one on Roshar. It was very odd for one of the visions to set him in a place without others to talk to and interact with. Though, for once, he wore his own clothing. The sharp blue Kholin uniform. Had this happened before, the other time hed been in that place of smoke? Yes it had. This was the first time hed been taken to a place where hed been before. Why? He carefully scanned the scenery. Since the voice didnt speak to him again, he began to walk, passing cracked boulders and broken bits of shale, pebbles and rocks. There were no plants, not even rockbuds. Just an empty landscape filled with broken stones. Eventually, he spotted a ridge. Getting to high ground felt like a good idea, though the hike seemed to take hours. The vision did not end. Time was often odd in these visions. He continued to hike up the side of the rock formation, wishing he had his Shardplate to strengthen him. Finally at the top, he walked over to the edge to look down below. And there he saw Kholinar, his home, the capital city of Alethkar. It had been destroyed. The beautiful buildings had been shattered. The windblades were cast down. There were no bodies, just broken stone. This wasnt like the vision he had seen before, with Nohadon. That wasnt the Kholinar of the distant past; he could see the rubble of his own palace. But there was no rock formation like the one he stood on near Kholinar in the real world. Always before, these visions had shown him the past. Was this now a vision of the future? I cannot fight him any longer, the voice said. Dalinar jumped, glancing to the side. A man stood there. He had dark skin and pure white hair. Tall, thick of chest but not massive, he wore exotic clothing of a strange cut: loose, billowing trousers and a coat that came down only to his waist. Both seemed made of gold. Yes this very thing had happened before, in his very first vision. Dalinar