Shallan wore. She was darkeyed, but she was obviously affluent. In Vorin kingdoms, shed likely be of the first or second nahn. Thaylens had their own system of ranks. At least they werent completely paganthey respected eye color, and the woman wore a glove on her safehand. There werent many books in the place. A few on the counter, one on a stand beside the chairs. A clock ticked on the wall, its underside hung with a dozen shimmering silver bells. This looked more like a persons home than a shop. The woman slid a marker into her book, smiling at Shallan. It was a smooth, eager smile. Almost predatory. Please, Brightness, sit, she said, waving toward the chairs. The woman had curled her long, white Thaylen eyebrows so they hung down the sides of her face like locks from her bangs. Shallan sat hesitantly as the woman rang a bell on the underside of the counter. Soon, a portly man waddled into the room wearing a vest that seemed ready to burst from the stress of holding in his girth. His hair was greying, and he kept his eyebrows combed back, over his ears. Ah, he said, clapping ample hands, dear young woman. Are you in the market for a nice novel? Some leisure reading to pass the cruel hours while you are separated from a lost love? Or perhaps a book on geography, with details of exotic locations? He had a slightly condescending tone and spoke in her native Veden. INo, thank you. I need an extensive set of books on history and three on philosophy. She thought back, trying to recall the names Jasnah had used. Something by Placini, Gabrathin, Yustara, Manaline, or Shauka-daughter- Hasweth. Heavy reading for one so young, the man said, nodding to the woman, who was probably his wife. She ducked into the back room. Hed use her for reading; even if he could read himself, he wouldnt want to off end customers by doing so in their presence. He would handle the money; commerce was a masculine art in most situations. Now, why is a young flower like yourself bothering herself with such topics? the merchant said, easing himself down into the chair across from her. Cant I interest you in a nice romantic novel? They are my specialty, you see. Young women from across the city come to me, and I always carry the best. His tone set her on edge. It was galling enough to know she was a sheltered child. Was it really necessary to remind her of it? A romantic novel, she said, holding her satchel close to her chest. Yes, perhaps that would be nice. Do you by chance have a copy of Nearer the Flame ? The merchant blinked. Nearer the Flame was written from the viewpoint of a man who slowly descended into madness after watching his children starve.