Brightness Jasnah is quite clever, Kabsal said, slicing himself another piece of bread. Shallan blinked. Oh, er. You mean shes right ? Right and wrong, Kabsal said. The devotary would very, very much like to get that fabrial. I planned to ask your help eventually. But? But my superiors thought it was a terrible idea. He grimaced. They think the king of Alethkar is volatile enough that hed march to war with Kharbranth over that. Soulcasters arent Shardblades, but they can be equally important. He shook his head, taking a bite of bread. Elhokar Kholin should be ashamed to let his sister use that fabrial, particularly so trivially. But if we were to steal it Well, the repercussions could be felt across all of Vorin Roshar. Is that so? Shallan said, feeling sick. He nodded. Most people dont think about it. I didnt. Kings rule and war with Shardsbut their armies subsist through Soulcasters. Do you have any idea the kinds of supply lines and support personnel Soulcasters replace? Without them, warfare is virtually impossible . Youd need hundreds of wagons filled with food every month! I guessthat would be a problem. She took a deep breath. They fascinate me, these Soulcasters. Ive always wondered what it would feel like to use one. I as well. So youve never used one? He shook his head. There arent any in Kharbranth. Right, she thought. Of course. Thats why the king needed Jasnah to help his granddaughter. Have you ever heard anyone talk about using one? She cringed at the bold statement. Would it make him suspicious? He just nodded idly. Theres a secret to it, Shallan. Really? she asked, heart in her throat. He looked up at her, seeming conspiratorial. Its really not that difficult. ItWhat? Its true, he said. Ive heard it from several ardents. Theres so much shadow and ritual surrounding Soulcasters. Theyre kept mysterious, arent used where people can see. But the truth is, theres not much to them. You just put one on, press your hand against something, and tap a gemstone with your finger. It works that simply. Thats not how Jasnah does it, she said, perhaps too defensively. Yes, that confused me, but supposedly if you use one long enough, you learn how to control them better. He shook his head. I dont like the mystery that has grown up around them. It smells too much like the mysticism of the old