Kaladin! Moashs voice said, urgent. The bridgemen split as Moash brought Teft in, an arrow sprouting from his shoulder between carapace breastplate and arm. Storm it! Kaladin said, helping Moash set Teft down. The older bridgeman looked dazed. The arrow had dug deep into the muscle. Somebody get pressure on Skars foot and wrap it until I can look at it. Teft, can you hear me? Im sorry, lad, Teft mumbled, eyes glassy. Im Youre all right, Kaladin said, hurriedly taking some bandages from Lopen, then nodding grimly. Lopen would heat a knife for cauterizing. Who else? Everyone else is accounted for, Drehy said. Teft was trying to hide his wound. He must have taken it when we were shoving the bridge across. Kaladin pressed gauze against the wound, then gestured for Lopen to hurry with the heated knife. I want our scouts watching. Make sure the Parshendi dont try a stunt like they did a few weeks back! If they jump across that plateau to get at Bridge Four, were dead. Is all right, Rock said, shading his eyes. Sadeas is keeping his men in this area. No Parshendi will get through. The knife came, and Kaladin held it hesitantly, a curl of smoke rising from its length. Teft had lost too much blood; there was no risking a sewing. But with the twist of the knife, Kaladin risked some bad scarring. That could leave the aging bridgeman with a stiff ness that would hurt his ability to wield a spear. Reluctantly, Kaladin pressed the knife into the wound, the flesh hissing and blood drying to black crisps. Painspren wiggled out of the ground, sinewy and orange. In a surgery, you could sew. But on the field, this was often the only way. Im sorry, Teft. He shook his head as he continued to work. Men began to scream. Arrows hit wood and flesh, sounding like distant woodsmen swinging axes. Dalinar waited beside his men, watching Sadeass soldiers fight. He had better give us an opening, he thought. Im starting to hunger for this plateau. Fortunately, Sadeas quickly gained his footing on the Tower and sent a flanking force over to carve out a section of land for Dalinar. They didnt get entirely into place before Dalinar started moving. One of you bridges, come with me! he bellowed, barreling to the forefront.