Kaladin. His men march in straight ranks. There is order in their camp. If theyre on duty, they dont leave their coats unbuttoned or lounge about. Will I never stop hearing about Dalinar storming Kholin? Kaladin thought. Men had spoken that way of Amaram. How easy it was to ignore a blackened heart if you dressed it in a pressed uniform and a reputation for honesty. Several hours later, the sweaty and exhausted group of bridgemen tramped up the incline to the lumberyard. They dumped their bridge in its resting place. It was getting late; Kaladin would have to purchase food immediately if they were going to have supplies for the evening stew. He wiped his hands on his towel as the members of Bridge Four lined up. Youre dismissed for evening activities, he said. We have chasm duty early tomorrow. Morning bridge practice will have to be moved to late afternoon. The bridgemen nodded, then Moash raised a hand. As one, the bridgemen raised their arms and crossed them, wrists together, hands in fists. It had the look of a practiced effort. After that, they trotted away. Kaladin raised an eyebrow, tucking his towel into his belt. Teft hung back, smiling. What was that? Kaladin asked. The men wanted a salute, Teft said. We cant use a regular military salute not with the spearmen already thinking were too bigheaded. So I taught them my old squad salute. When? This morning. While you were getting our schedule from Hashal. Kaladin smiled. Odd, how he could still do that. Nearby, the other nineteen bridge crews on todays run dropped off their bridges, one by one. Had Bridge Four once looked like them, with those ragged beards and haunted expressions? None of them spoke to one another. Some few glanced at Kaladin as they passed, but they looked down as soon as they saw he was watching. Theyd stopped treating Bridge Four with the contempt theyd once shown. Curiously, they now seemed to regard Kaladins crew as they did everyone else in camp as people above them. They hastened to avoid his notice. Poor sodden fools, Kaladin thought. Could he, maybe, persuade Hashal to let him take a few into Bridge Four? He could the use extra men, and seeing those slumped figures twisted his heart. I know that look, lad, Teft said. Why is it you always have to help everyone? Bah, Kaladin said. I cant even protect Bridge Four. Here, let me look at