shed agreed to his plan. He didnt notice her doing anything special, but Lopen suddenly gasped. Syl had made herself visible to him. Ah Rock said, bowing in respect to Syl. Like gathering reeds. Well flick my sparks, Lopen said. Rock, you never said it was so pretty! Syl smiled broadly. Be respectful, Rock said. Is not for you to speak of her in that way, little person. The men knew about Syl, of course. Kaladin didnt speak of her, but they saw him talking to the air, and Rock had explained. Lopen, Kaladin said. Syl can move far more quickly than a bridgeman. She will search out places for you to gather, and you four can pick through things quickly. Dangerous, Rock said. What if we meet chasmfiend while alone? Unfortunately, we cant come back empty-handed. The last thing we want is Hashal deciding to send Gaz down to supervise. Lopen snorted. Hed never do that, gancho. Too much work down here. Too dangerous too, Rock added. Everyone says that, Kaladin said. But Ive never seen more than these scrapes on the walls. Theyre down here, Rock said. Is not just legend. Just before you came, half a bridge crew was killed. Eaten. Most beasts come to the middle plateaus, but there are some who come this far. Well, I hate to put you in danger, but unless we try this, well have chasm duty taken from us and well end up cleaning latrines instead. All right, gancho, Lopen said. Ill go. As will I, Rock said. With aliikamura to protect, perhaps it will be safe. I intend to teach you to fight eventually, Kaladin said. Then as Rock frowned, Kaladin hastily added, You, Lopen, I mean. One arm doesnt mean youre useless. Youll be at a disadvantage, but there are things I can teach you to deal with that. Right now a scavenger is more important to us than another spear. Sounds swift to me. Lopen gestured to Dabbid, and the two walked over to gather sacks for the collecting. Rock moved to join them, but Kaladin took his arm. I havent given up on finding an easier way out of here than fighting, Kaladin said to him. If we never returned, Gaz and the others would probably just assume that a chasmfiend got us. If theres some way to reach the other side