I hadnt expected there to be so much discord among the camps here. I thought it would all be one kings army, unified. People are discord, Syl said. What does that mean? You all act differently and think differently. Nothing else is like that animals act alike, and all spren are, in a sense, virtually the same individual. Theres harmony in that. But not in youit seems that no two of you can agree on anything. All the world does as it is supposed to, except for humans. Maybe thats why you so often want to kill each other. But not all windspren act alike, Kaladin said, opening the box and tucking some of the bandages into the pocket hed sewn into the inside of his leather vest. Youre proof of that. I know, she said softly. Maybe now you can see why it bothers me so. Kaladin didnt know how to respond to that. Eventually, he reached the lumberyard. A few members of Bridge Four lounged in the shade on the east side of their barrack. It would be interesting to see one of those barracks get madethey were Soulcast directly from air into stone. Unfortunately, Soulcastings happened at night, and under strict guard to keep the holy rite from being witnessed by anyone other than ardents or very high-ranking lighteyes. The first afternoon bell sounded right as Kaladin reached the barrack, and he caught a glare from Gaz for nearly being late for bridge duty. Most of that duty would be spent sitting around, waiting for the horns to blow. Well, Kaladin didnt intend to waste time. He couldnt risk tiring himself by carrying the plank, not when a bridge run could be imminent, but perhaps he could do some stretches or A horn sounded in the air, crisp and clean. It was like the mythical horn that was said to guide the souls of the brave to heavens battlefield. Kaladin froze. As always, he waited for the second blast, an irrational part of him needing to hear confirmation. It came, sounding a pattern indicating the location of the pupating chasmfiend. Soldiers began to scramble toward the staging area beside the lumberyard; others ran into camp to fetch their gear. Line up! Kaladin shouted, dashing up to the bridgemen. Storm you! Every man in a line! They ignored him. Some of the men werent wearing their vests, and they clogged the barrack doorway, all trying to get in. Those who had their vests ran for the bridge. Kaladin followed, frustrated. Once there, the men gathered around the bridge in a carefully prearranged manner. Each man got a chance to be in the best position: running in front up to the chasm, then moving to the relative safety of the back for the final approach.