hed been away the last few times shed contacted home. She took the spanreed and closed the door. She didnt dare return to her rooms, with all of those sketches accusing her, but there was a desk and a spanreed board in the main room. She sat there, then twisted the ruby. Shallan? the reed wrote. Are you comfortable? It was a code phrase, meant to indicate to her that it was indeed Nan Balator, at least, his betrothedon the other side. My back hurts and my wrist itches, she wrote back, giving the other half of the code phrase. Im sorry I missed your other communications, Nan Balat sent. I had to attend a feast in Fathers name. It was with Sur Kamar, so it wasnt really something I could miss, despite the day of traveling each way. Its all right, Shallan wrote. She took a deep breath. I have the item. She turned the gem. The reed was still for a long moment. Finally, a hurried hand wrote, Praise the Heralds. Oh, Shallan. Youve done it! You are on your way back to us, then? How can you use the spanreed on the ocean? Are you in port? I havent left, Shallan wrote. What? Why? Because it would be too suspicious, she wrote. Think about it, Nan Balat. If Jasnah tries the item and finds it broken, she might not immediately decide that shes been had. That changes if Ive suddenly and suspiciously left for home. I have to wait until shes made the discovery, then see what she does next. If she realizes that her fabrial was replaced with a fake, then I can deflect her toward other culprits. Shes already suspicious of the ardentia. Ifon the other handshe assumes that her fabrial has broken somehow, Ill know were free. She twisted the gem, setting the spanreed in place. The question shed been expecting came next. And if she immediately assumes that you did it? Shallan, what if you cant deflect her suspicion? What if she orders a search of your chambers and they find the hidden compartment? She picked up the pen. Then it is still better for me to be here, she wrote. Balat, I have learned much about Jasnah Kholin. She is incredibly focused and determined. She will not let me escape if she thinks I have robbed her. She will hunt me down, and will use all of her resources to exact retribution. Wed have our own king and highprinces on our property in days, demanding that we turn over the fabrial. Stormfather! Ill bet Jasnah has contacts in Jah Keved that she could reach before I got back. Id find myself in custody the moment I landed. Our only hope is to deflect her. If that doesnt work, better for me to be here and suffer her wrath quickly. Likely she would take the Soulcaster and banish me