a point. But the others very much like the present arrangement. Because it is comfortable to them. If we are going to win, we will need to upset them. Dalinar stepped forward. Elhokar, maybe its been long enough. Six years ago, naming a Highprince of War might well have been a mistake. But now? We know one another better, and weve been working united against the Parshendi. Perhaps it is time to take the next step. Perhaps, the king said. You think they are ready? Ill let you prove it to me. If you can show me that they are willing to work with you, Uncle, then Ill consider naming you Highprince of War. Is that satisfactory? It was a solid compromise. Very well. Good, the king said, standing up. Then let us part for now. It is growing late, and I have yet to hear what Ruthar wishes of me. Dalinar nodded his farewell, walking back through the kings chambers, Renarin trailing him. The more he considered, the more he felt that this was the right thing to do. Retreating would not work with the Alethi, particularly not with their current mind-set. But if he could shock them out of their complacency, force them to adopt a more aggressive strategy He was still lost in thought considering that as they left the kings palace and made their way down the ramps to where their horses waited. He climbed astride Gallant, nodding his thanks to the groom who had cared for the Ryshadium. The horse had recovered from his fall during the hunt, his leg solid and hale. It was a short distance back to Dalinars warcamp, and they rode in silence. Which of the highprinces should I approach first? Dalinar thought. Sadeas? No. No, he and Sadeas were already seen working together too often. If the other highprinces began to smell a stronger alliance, it would drive them to turn against him. Best that he approach less powerful highprinces first and see if he could get them to work with him in some way. A joint plateau assault, perhaps? Hed have to approach Sadeas eventually. He didnt relish the thought. Things were always so much easier when the two of them could work at a safe distance from one another. He Father, Renarin said. He sounded dismayed. Dalinar sat upright, looking around, hand going for his side sword even while he prepared to summon his Shardblade. Renarin pointed. Eastward. Stormward. The horizon was growing dark. Was there supposed to be a highstorm today? Dalinar asked, alarmed. Elthebar said it was unlikely, Renarin said. But hes been wrong before. Everyone could be wrong about highstorms. They could be predicted, but it