was red, irritated, and crusted with scabs. It throbbed, almost like a second heart. It hurt even worse than the burn had when he grabbed the heated handle of a cooking pot as a child. Lessons drilled into Kaladin by his father whispered in the back of his brain, giving the proper way to care for a burn. Apply a salve to prevent infection, wash once daily. Those memories werent a comfort; they were an annoyance. He didnt have fourleaf sap or listers oil; he didnt even have water for the washing. The parts of the wound that had scabbed over pulled at his skin, making his forehead feel tight. He could barely pass a few minutes without scrunching up his brow and irritating the wound. Hed grown accustomed to reaching up and wiping away the streaks of blood that trickled from the cracks; his right forearm was smeared with it. If hed had a mirror, he could probably have spotted tiny red rotspren gathering around the wound. The sun set in the west, but the wagons kept rolling. Violet Salas peeked over the horizon to the east, seeming hesitant at first, as if making sure the sun had vanished. It was a clear night, and the stars shivered high above. Talns Scar a swath of deep red stars that stood out vibrantly from the twinkling white oneswas high in the sky this season. That slave whod been coughing earlier was at it again. A ragged, wet cough. Once, Kaladin would have been quick to go help, but something within him had changed. So many people hed tried to help were now dead. It seemed to himirrationallythat the man would be better off without his interference. After failing Tien, then Dallet and his team, then ten successive groups of slaves, it was hard to find the will to try again. Two hours past First Moon, Tvlakv finally called a halt. His two brutish mercenaries climbed from their places atop their wagons, then moved to build a small fire. Lanky Taranthe serving boytended the chulls. The large crustaceans were nearly as big as wagons themselves. They settled down, pulling into their shells for the night with clawfuls of grain. Soon they were nothing more than three lumps in the darkness, barely distinguishable from boulders. Finally, Tvlakv began checking on the slaves one at a time, giving each a ladle of water, making certain his investments were healthy. Or, at least, as healthy as could be expected for this poor lot. Tvlakv started with the first wagon, and Kaladinstill sittingpushed his fingers into his makeshift belt, checking on the leaves hed hidden there. They crackled satisfactorily, the stiff, dried husks rough against his skin. He still wasnt certain what he was going to do with them. Hed grabbed them on a whim during one of the sessions when hed been allowed out of the wagon to