threw every bit of it he had into his shield. The scream echoed in his ears; the Stormlight burst from him, his clothing freezing and cracking. Arrows darkened the sky. Something hit him, an extended impact that tossed him backward into the bridgemen. He struck hard, grunting as the force continued to push upon him. The bridge ground to a halt, the men stopping. All fell still. Kaladin blinked, feeling completely drained. His body hurt, his arms tingled, his back ached. There was a sharp pain in his wrist. He groaned, opening his eyes, stumbling as Rocks hands caught him from behind. A muted thump. The bridge being set down. Idiots! Kaladin thought. Dont set it down. Retreat. The bridgemen crowded around him as he slipped to the ground, overwhelmed by having expended too much Stormlight. He blinked at what he held before him, attached to his bleeding arm. His shield was covered in arrows, dozens of them, some splitting the others. The bones crossing the shields front had shattered; the wood was in splinters. Some of the arrows had gone through and hit his forearm. That was the pain. Over a hundred arrows. An entire volley. Pulled into a single shield. By the Brightcallers rays, Drehy said softly. What what was It was like a fountain of light, Moash said, kneeling beside Kaladin. Like the sun itself burst from you, Kaladin. The Parshendi Kaladin croaked, and let go of the shield. The straps were broken, and as he struggled to stand, the shield all but disintegrated, falling to pieces, scattering dozens of broken arrows at his feet. A few remained stuck in his arm, but he ignored the pain, looking across at the Parshendi. The groups of archers on both plateaus froze in stunned postures. The ones in front began to call to one another in a language Kaladin didnt understand. Neshua Kadal! They stood up. And then they fled. What? Kaladin said. I dont know, Teft said, cradling his own wounded arm. But were getting you to safety. Blast this arm. Lopen! The shorter man brought Dabbid, and they ushered Kaladin away to a more secure location toward the center of the plateau. He held his arm, numb, his exhaustion so deep that he could barely think. Bridge up! Moash called. Weve still got a job to do! The rest of the bridgemen grimly ran back to their bridge, hoisting it up. On the Tower, Dalinars force was fighting its way through the Parshendi toward the