Can you fly? He held up a hand, stanching the questions. Arent you alarmed by what you saw? Several of the men shrugged. It kept you alive, gancho, Lopen said. The only thing Id be alarmed about is how irresistible the women would find it. Lopen, theyd say, you only have one arm, but I see that you can glow. I think that you should kiss me now. But its strange and frightening, Kaladin protested. This is what the Radiants did! Everyone knows they were traitors. Yeah, Moash said, snorting. Just like everyone knows that the light-eyes are chosen by the Almighty to rule, and how theyre always noble and just. Were Bridge Four, Skar added. Weve been around. Weve lived in the crem and been used as bait. If it helps you survive, its good. Thats all that needs to be said about it. So can you teach it? Moash asked. Can you show us how to do what you do? I I dont know if it can be taught, Kaladin said, glancing at Syl, who bore a curious expression as she sat on a nearby rock. Im not certain what it is. They looked crestfallen. But, Kaladin added, that doesnt mean that we shouldnt try. Moash smiled. Can you do it? Drehy asked, fishing out a sphere, a small glowing diamond chip. Right now? I want to see it when Im expecting it. Its not a feastday sport, Drehy, Kaladin said. Dont you think we deserve it? Sigzil leaned forward on his stone. Kaladin paused. Then, hesitantly, he reached out a finger and touched the sphere. He inhaled sharply; drawing in the Light was becoming more and more natural. The sphere faded. Stormlight began to trickle from Kaladins skin, and he breathed normally to make it leak faster, making it more visible. Rock pulled out a ragged old blanketused for kindling and tossed it over the fire, disturbing the flamespren and making a few moments of darkness before the flames chewed through. In that darkness, Kaladin glowed, pure white Light rising from his skin. Storms Drehy breathed. So, what can you do with it? Skar asked, eager. You didnt answer. Im not entirely certain what I can do, Kaladin said, holding his hand up in front of him. It faded in a moment, and the fire burned through the blanket, lighting them all again. Ive only known about it for sure for a few weeks. I can