Kaladin remembered feeling such dedication. Hed spent a year like that, after Tiens death, driving himself to exhaustion each day. Determined to get better. Determined never to let another person die because of his lack of skill. Hed become the best in his squad, then the best in his company. Some said hed been the best spearmen in Amarams army. What would have happened to him, if Tarah hadnt coaxed him out of his single-minded dedication? Would he have burned himself out, as shed claimed? Moash, Kaladin called. Moash paused, turning toward Kaladin. He didnt fall out of stance. Kaladin waved him to approach, and Moash reluctantly trotted over. Lopen had left a few waterskins for them, hanging by their cords from a cluster of haspers. Kaladin pulled a skin free, tossing it to Moash. The other man took a drink, then wiped his mouth. Youre getting good, Kaladin said. Youre probably the best we have. Thanks, Moash said. Ive noticed you keep training when Teft lets the other men take breaks. Dedication is good, but dont work yourself ragged. I want you to be one of the decoys. Moash smiled broadly. Each of the men had volunteered to be one of the four who would join Kaladin distracting the Parshendi. It was amazing. Months ago, Moashalong with the othershad eagerly placed the new or the weak at the front of the bridge to catch arrows. Now, to a man, they volunteered for the most dangerous jobs. Do you realize what you could have in these men, Sadeas? Kaladin thought. If you werent so busy thinking of how to get them killed? So what is it for you? Kaladin said, nodding toward the dim practice ground. Why do you work so hard? What is it you hunt? Vengeance, the other man said, face somber. Kaladin nodded. I lost someone once. Because I wasnt good enough with the spear. I nearly killed myself practicing. Who was it? My brother. Moash nodded. The other bridgemen, Moash included, seemed to regard Kaladins mysterious past with reverence. Im glad I trained, Kaladin said. And Im glad youre dedicated. But you have to be careful. If Id gotten myself killed by working so hard, it wouldnt have meant anything. Sure. But theres a difference between us, Kaladin. Kaladin raised an eyebrow.