with Gaz. What are you offering this time? Gaz said. More dun spheres? No, Kaladin said, thinking quickly. This would have to be handled very carefully. Im out of spheres. But we cant continue like this, you avoiding me, the other bridge crews hating me. Dont see what we can do about it. I tell you what, Kaladin said, as if suddenly having a thought. Is anyone on stone-gathering detail today? Yeah, Gaz said, gesturing over his shoulder. Bridge Three. Bussik there was just trying to convince me that his team is too weak to go. Storms blast me, but I believe him. Lost two-thirds of his men yesterday, and Ill be the one who gets chewed out when they dont gather enough stones to meet quota. Kaladin nodded sympathetically. Stone gathering was one of the least desirable work details; it involved traveling outside of the camp and filling wagons with large rocks. Soulcasters fed the army by turning rocks into grain, and it was easier for themfor reasons only they knewif they had distinct, separate stones. So men gathered rocks. It was menial, sweaty, tiring, mindless work. Perfect for bridgemen. Why dont you send a different bridge team? Kaladin asked. Bah, Gaz said. You know the kind of trouble that makes. If Im seen playing favorites, I never hear an end of the complaining. Nobody will complain if you make Bridge Four do it. Gaz glanced at him, single eye narrowed. I didnt think youd react well to being treated differently. Ill do it, Kaladin said, grimacing. Just this once. Look, Gaz, I dont want to spend the rest of my time here fighting against you. Gaz hesitated. Your men are going to be angry. I wont let them think it was me who did this to them. Ill tell them that it was my idea. All right, then. Third bell, meet at the western checkpoint. Bridge Three can clean pots. He walked away quickly, as if to escape before Kaladin changed his mind. Rock stepped up beside Kaladin, watching Gaz. The little man is right, you know. The men will hate you for this thing. They were looking forward to easy day. Theyll get over it. But why change for harder work? Is trueyou are crazy, arent you? Maybe. But that craziness will get us outside of the warcamp. What good is that?