were quick and strong, and he fought defensively, trying to distract and keep pressure off the Shardbearers. The creatures did not retreat. They continued to attack until the last one was sliced in two by the female Shardbearer. Dalinar stopped, puffing, lowering his poker. Other lights had fallenand still were fallingfrom the sky in the direction of the village; presumably, some of these strange Shardbearers had landed there as well. Well, a strong voice said, I must say that Ive never before had the pleasure of fighting alongside a comrade with suchunconventional means. Dalinar turned to find the male Shardbearer regarding him. Where had the mans helm gone? The Shardbearer stood with his Blade resting on his armored shoulder, and he inspected Dalinar with eyes of such bright blue, they were almost white. Were those eyes actually glowing , leaking Stormlight? His skin was dark brown, like a Makabaki, and he had short black curly hair. His armor no longer glowed, though one large symbolemblazoned across the front of the breastplatestill gave off a faint blue light. Dalinar recognized the symbol, the particular pattern of the stylized double eye, eight spheres connected with two at the center. It had been the symbol of the Lost Radiants, back when theyd been called the Knights Radiant. The female Shardbearer watched the village. Who trained you in the sword? the male knight asked Dalinar. Dalinar met the eyes of the knight. He had no idea how to respond. This is my husband Heb, good knight, Taffa said, rushing forward, leading her daughter by the hand. Hes never seen a sword, far as I know. Your stances are unfamiliar to me, the knight said. But they were practiced and precise. This level of skill comes only with years of training. I have rarely seen a manknight or soldierfight as well as you did. Dalinar remained silent. No words for me, I see, the knight said. Very well. But should you wish to put that mysterious training of yours to use, come to Urithiru. Urithiru? Dalinar said. Hed heard that name somewhere. Yes, the knight said. I cannot promise you a position in one of the orders that decision is not minebut if your skill with the sword is similar to your skill with hearth-tending implements, then I am confident you will find a place with us. He turned eastward, toward the village. Spread the word. Signs like this one are not without import. A Desolation is coming. He turned to his companion. I will go. Guard these three and lead them to the village. We cannot leave them alone in the dangers of this night. His companion nodded. The blue knights armor began to glow faintly, then he launched into the air, as if falling straight up. Dalinar stumbled back,