Kaladins brother fell just like that. One eyeblink and he was standing there, looking terrified. The next he was on the ground.  No!  Kaladin screamed. He tried to get to his feet, but slipped to his knees. His leg didnt work right. Varths squad hurried forward, attacking the enemieswho had been distracted with Tien and the other two. Theyd placed the untrained at the front to stop the momentum of the enemy attack. No, no, no! Kaladin screamed. He used his spear to hoist himself to his feet, then stumbled forward. It couldnt be what he thought. It couldnt be over that quickly. It was a miracle that nobody struck Kaladin down as he stumbled the rest of the distance. He barely thought about it. He just watched where Tien had fallen. There was thunder. No. Hooves. Amaram had arrived with his cavalry, and they were sweeping through the enemy lines. Kaladin didnt care. He finally reached the spot. There, he found three corpses: young, small, lying in a hollow in the stone. Horrified, numb, Kaladin reached out his hand and rolled over the one that was face-down. Tiens dead eyes stared upward. Kaladin continued to kneel beside the body. He should have bound his wound, should have moved back to safety, but he was too numb. He just knelt. About time he rode down here, a voice said. Kaladin looked up, noting a group of spearmen gathering nearby, watching the cavalry. He wanted them to bunch up against us, one the spearmen said. He had knots on the shoulders. Varth, their squadleader. Such keen eyes the man had. Not a brutish lout. Lean, thoughtful. I should feel anger, Kaladin thought. I should feel something. Varth looked down at him, then at the bodies of the three dead messenger boys. You bastard, Kaladin hissed. You put them in front. You work with what you have, Varth said, nodding to his team, then pointing at a fortified position. If they give me men who cant fight, Ill find another use for them. He hesitated as his team marched away. He seemed regretful. Gotta do what you can to stay alive, son. Turn a liability into an advantage whenever you can. Remember that, if you live. With that, he jogged off. Kaladin looked down. Why couldnt I protect him? he thought, looking at Tien, remembering his brothers laugh. His innocence, his smile, his excitement at exploring the hills outside Hearthstone.