Tvlakv hesitated, then waved curtly to his mercenaries, silencing them. The portly man hopped down from his wagon and walked over to Kaladin. You, he said. Deserter. Alethi armies travel these lands for their war. Do you know anything of the area? Let me see the map, Kaladin said. Tvlakv hesitated, then held it up for Kaladin. Kaladin reached through the bars and snatched the paper. Then, without reading it, Kaladin ripped it in two. In seconds hed shredded it into a hundred pieces in front of Tvlakvs horrified eyes. Tvlakv called for the mercenaries, but by the time they arrived, Kaladin had a double handful of confetti to toss out at them. Happy Middlefest, you bastards, Kaladin said as the flakes of paper fluttered around them. He turned and walked to the other side of the cage and sat down, facing them. Tvlakv stood, speechless. Then, red faced, he pointed at Kaladin and hissed something at the mercenaries. Bluth took a step toward the cage, but then thought better of it. He glanced at Tvlakv, then shrugged and walked away. Tvlakv turned to Tag, but the other mercenary just shook his head, saying something soft. After a few minutes of stewing at the cowardly mercenaries, Tvlakv rounded the cage and approached where Kaladin was sitting. Surprisingly, when he spoke, his voice was calm. I see you are clever, deserter. You have made yourself invaluable. My other slaves, they arent from this area, and I have never come this way. You can bargain. What is it you wish in exchange for leading us? I can promise you an extra meal each day, should you please me. You want me to lead the caravan? Instructions will be acceptable. All right. First, find a cliff. That, it will give you a vantage to see the area? No, Kaladin said. It will give me something to throw you off of. Tvlakv adjusted his cap in annoyance, brushing back one of his long white eyebrows. You hate me. That is good. Hatred will keep you strong, make you sell for much. But you will not find vengeance on me unless I have a chance to take you to market. I will not let you escape. But perhaps someone else would. You want to be sold, you see? I dont want vengeance, Kaladin said. The windspren came backshed darted off for a time to inspect one of the strange shrubs. She landed in the air and began walking around Tvlakvs face, inspecting him. He didnt seem to be able to see her. Tvlakv frowned. No vengeance?