But I think I can make a good chair tomorrow, something that will make him proud. Kaladin looked at his brother, with his innocent face and affable nature. He hadnt lost either, though he was now into his teenage years. How is it you can always smile? Kaladin thought. Its dreadful outside, your master treats you like crem, and your family is slowly being strangled by the citylord. And yet you smile. How, Tien? And why is it that you make me want to smile too? Father spent another of the spheres, Tien, Kaladin found himself saying. Each time their father was forced to do that, he seemed to grow a little more wan, stand a little less tall. Those spheres were dun these days, no light in them. You couldnt infuse spheres during the Weeping. They all ran out, eventually. There are plenty more, Tien said. Roshone is trying to wear us down, Kaladin said. Bit by bit, smother us. Its not as bad as it seems, Kaladin, his brother said, reaching up to hold his arm. Things are never as bad as they seem. Youll see. So many objections rose in his mind, but Tiens smile banished them. There, in the midst of the dreariest part of the year, Kaladin felt for a moment as if he had glimpsed sunshine. He could swear he felt things grow brighter around them, the storm retreating a shade, the sky lightening. Their mother rounded the back of the building. She looked up at them, as if amused to find them both sitting on the roof in the rain. She stepped onto the lower portion. A small group of haspers clung to the stone there; the small two- shelled creatures proliferated during the Weeping. They seemed to grow out of nowhere, much like their cousins the tiny snails, scattered all across the stone. What are you two talking about? she asked, walking up and sitting down with them. Hesina rarely acted like the other mothers in town. Sometimes, that bothered Kaladin. Shouldnt she have sent them into the house or something, complaining that theyd catch a cold? No, she just sat down with them, wearing a brown leather raincoat. Kaladins worried about Father spending the spheres, Tien said. Oh, I wouldnt worry about that, she replied. Well get you to Kharbranth. Youll be old enough to leave in two more months. You two should come with me, Kal said. And Father too. And leave the town? Tien said, as if hed never considered that possibility. But I like it here. Hesina smiled. What? Kaladin said. Most young men your age are trying everything they can to be rid of their