At least three dozen other men walked alongside them, wearing brown tunics. More drove the three large wagons. Wow, Rysn said. He brought a lot of servants. Servants? Vstim said. The fellows in brown. Her babsk smiled. Those are his guards, child. What? They look so dull. Shin are a curious folk, he said. Here, warriors are the lowliest of men kind of like slaves. Men trade and sell them between houses by way of little stones that signify ownership, and any man who picks up a weapon must join them and be treated the same. The fellow in the fancy robe? Hes a farmer. A landowner, you mean? No. As far as I can tell, he goes out every daywell, the days when hes not overseeing a negotiation like thisand works the fields. They treat all farmers like that, lavish them with attention and respect. Rysn gaped. But most villages are filled with farmers! Indeed, Vstim said. Holy places, here. Foreigners arent allowed near fields or farming villages. How strange, she thought. Perhaps living in this place has affected their minds. Kylrm and his guards didnt look terribly pleased at being so heavily outnumbered, but Vstim didnt seem bothered. Once the Shin grew close, he walked out from his wagons without a hint of trepidation. Rysn hurried after him, her skirt brushing the grass below. Bother, she thought. Another problem with its not retracting. If she had to buy a new hem because of this dull grass, it was going to make her very cross. Vstim met up with the Shin, then bowed in a distinctive way, hands toward the ground.  Tan balo ken tala , he said. She didnt know what it meant. The man in the cloakthe farmer nodded respectfully, and one of the other riders dismounted and walked forward. Winds of Fortune guide you, my friend. He spoke Thaylen very well. He who adds is happy for your safe arrival. Thank you, Thresh-son-Esan, Vstim said. And my thanks to he who adds. What have you brought for us from your strange lands, friend? Thresh said. More metal, I hope? Vstim waved and some of the guards brought over a heavy crate. They set it down and pried off the top, revealing its peculiar contents. Pieces of scrap metal, mostly shaped like bits of shell, though some were formed like pieces of wood.