not proper man without proper beard. Kaladin rubbed his own beard. One of these days, hed save up and buy a razor and be rid of the blasted thing. Or, well, probably not. His spheres would be needed elsewhere. They rounded the corner and found Dunny pulling the Parshendi bodies into a line. There were four of them, and they looked like theyd been swept in from another direction. There were a few more Alethi bodies here too. Kaladin strode forward, waving Rock to bring the light, and knelt to inspect one of the Parshendi dead. They were like parshmen, with skin in marbled patterns of black and crimson. Their only clothing was knee-length black skirts. Three wore beards, which was unusual for parshmen, and those were woven with uncut gemstones. Just as Kaladin had expected, they wore armor of a pale red color. Breastplates, helms on the heads, guards on the arms and legs. Extensive armor for regular foot soldiers. Some of it was cracked from the fall or the wash. It wasnt metal, then. Painted wood? I thought you said they werent armored, Kaladin said. What are you trying to tell me? That you dont dare take it off the dead? Dont dare? Rock said. Kaladin, Master Brightlord, brilliant bridgeleader, spinner of spear, perhaps you will get it off them. Kaladin shrugged. His father had instilled in him a familiarity with the dead and dying, and though it felt bad to rob the dead, he was not squeamish. He prodded the first Parshendi, noting the mans knife. He took it and looked for the strap that held the shoulder guard in place. There was no strap. Kaladin frowned and peered underneath the guard, trying to pry it up. The skin lifted with it. Stormfather! he said. He inspected the helm. It was grown into the head. Or grown from the head. What is this? Do not know, Rock said, shrugging. It is looking like they grow their own armor, eh? Thats ridiculous, Kaladin said. Theyre just people. Peopleeven parshmendont grow armor. Parshendi do, Teft said. Kaladin and the other two turned to him. Dont look at me like that, the older man said with a scowl. I worked in the camp for a few years before I ended up as a bridgemanno, Im not going to tell you how, so storm off. Anyway, the soldiers talk about it. The Parshendi grow carapaces. Ive known parshmen, Kaladin said. There were a couple of them in my hometown, serving the citylord. None of them grew armor.