approached him, though they gave way before him. Elhokar might think his uncle was growing weak, but his reputation quelled most lesser lighteyes. He soon approached the bridge to the final islandthe kings island. Pole- mounted gem lamps ringed it, glowing with blue Stormlight, and a firepit dominated the center of the platform. Deep red coals simmered in its bowels, radiating warmth. Elhokar sat at his table just behind the firepit, and several highprinces ate with him. Tables along the sides of the platform were occupied by male or female dinersnever both at the same. Wit sat on a raised stool at the end of the bridge leading onto the island. Wit actually dressed as a lighteyes shouldhe wore a stiff black uniform, silver sword at his waist. Dalinar shook his head at the irony. Wit was insulting each person as they stepped onto the island. Brightness Marakal! What a disaster that hairstyle is; how brave of you to show it to the world. Brightlord Marakal, I wish youd warned us you were going to attend; Id have forgone supper. I do so hate being sick after a full meal. Brightlord Cadilar! How good it is to see you. Your face reminds me of someone dear to me. Really? wizened Cadilar said, hesitating. Yes, Wit said, waving him on, my horse. Ah, Brightlord Neteb, you smell unique todaydid you attack a wet whitespine, or did one just sneeze on you? Lady Alami! No, please, dont speakits much easier to maintain my illusions regarding your intelligence that way. And Brightlord Dalinar. Wit nodded to Dalinar as he passed. Ah, my dear Brightlord Taselin. Still engaged in your experiment to prove a maximum threshold of human idiocy? Good for you! Very empirical of you. Dalinar hesitated beside Wits chair as Taselin waddled by with a huff. Wit, Dalinar said, do you have to? Two what, Dalinar? Wit said, eyes twinkling. Eyes, hands, or spheres? Id lend you one of the first, butby definitiona man can only have one I, and if it is given away, who would be Wit then? Id lend you one of the second, but I fear my simple hands have been digging in the muck far too often to suit one such as you. And if I gave you one of my spheres, what would I spend the remaining one on? Im quite attached to both of my spheres, you see. He hesitated. Or, well, you cant see. Would you like to? He stood up off his chair and reached for his belt. Wit, Dalinar said dryly. Wit laughed, clapping Dalinar on the arm. Im sorry. This lot brings out the basest humor in me. Perhaps its that muck I spoke of earlier. I do try so hard to be elevated in my loathing of them, but they make it difficult. Care for yourself, Wit, Dalinar said. This lot wont suffer you forever. I