I What to say? Did it matter? Most of what I show you are scenes I have seen directly, the figure said. But some, such as this one, are born out of my fears. If I fear it, then you should too. The land was trembling. The wall of dust was being caused by something. Something approaching. The ground was falling away. Dalinar gasped. The very rocks ahead were shattering, breaking apart, becoming dust. He backed away as everything began to shake, a massive earthquake accompanied by a terrible roar of dying rocks. He fell to the ground. There was an awful, grinding, terrifying moment of nightmare. The shaking, the destruction, the sounds of the land itself seeming to die. Then it was past. Dalinar breathed in and out before rising on unsteady legs. He and the figure stood on a solitary pinnacle of rock. A little section thatfor some reasonhad been protected. It was like a stone pillar a few paces wide, rising high into the air. Around it, the land was gone . Kholinar was gone. It had all fallen away into unplumbed darkness below. He felt vertigo, standing on the tiny bit of rock that impossiblyremained. What is this? Dalinar demanded, though he knew that the being couldnt hear him. The figure looked about, sorrowful. I cant leave much. Just these few images, given to you. Whoever you are. These visions theyre like a journal, arent they? A history you wrote, a book you left behind, except I dont read it, I see it. The figure looked into the sky. I dont even know if anyone will ever see this. I am gone, you see. Dalinar didnt respond. He looked over the sheer pinnacle, down at a void, horrified. This isnt just about you either, the figure said, raising his hand into the air. A light winked out in the sky, one that Dalinar hadnt realized was there. Then another winked out as well. The sun seemed to be growing dimmer. Its about all of them, the figure said. I should have realized hed come for me. Who are you? Dalinar asked, voicing the words to himself. The figure still stared into the sky. I leave this, because there must be something. A hope to discover. A chance that someone will find what to do. Do you wish to fight him? Yes, Dalinar found himself saying, despite knowing that it didnt matter.