try to push me backward. What? Try and throw me off balance, Kaladin said. Force me to stumble. Skar shrugged and walked forward. He tried to shove Kaladin back, but Kaladin easily knocked his hands aside with a quick snap of the wrist. Skar cursed and came at him again, but Kaladin caught his arm and shoved him backward, causing Skar to stumble. Drehy, come help him, Kaladin said. Moash, you too. Try to force me off balance. The other two joined Skar. Kaladin stepped around the attacks, staying squarely in the middle of them, adjusting his stance to rebuff each attempt. He grabbed Drehys arm and yanked him forward, nearly causing him to fall. He stepped into Skars shoulder-rush, deflecting the weight of the mans body and throwing him backward. He pulled back as Moash got his arms on him, causing Moash to overbalance himself. Kaladin remained completely unfazed, weaving between them and adjusting his center of balance by bending his knees and positioning his feet. Combat begins with the legs, Kaladin said as he evaded the attacks. I dont care how fast you are with a jab, how accurate you are with a thrust. If your opponent can trip you, or make you stumble, youll lose. Losing means dying. Several of the watching bridgemen tried to imitate Kaladin, crouching down. Skar, Drehy, and Moash had finally decided to try a coordinated rush, planning to all tackle Kaladin at once. Kaladin held up his hand. Well done, you three. He motioned them back to stand with the others. They reluctantly broke off their attacks. Im going to split you into pairs, Kaladin said. Were going to spend all day todayand probably each day this weekworking on stances. Learning to maintain one, learning to not lock your knees the moment youre threatened, learning to hold your center of balance. It will take time, but I promise you if we start here, youll learn to be deadly far more quickly. Even if it seems that all youre doing at first is standing around. The men nodded. Teft, Kaladin ordered. Split them into pairs by size and weight, then run them through an elementary forward spear stance. Aye, sir! Teft barked. Then he froze, realizing what hed given away. The speed at which hed responded made it obvious that Teft had been a soldier. Teft met Kaladins eyes and saw that Kaladin knew. The older man scowled, but Kaladin returned a grin. He had a veteran under his command; that was going to make this all a lot easier.