shaking their heads in amusement. Soldiers on the short ridge above, where the camp proper began, looked down and laughed. Gaz watched from beside a nearby barrack, arms folded, single eye dissatisfied. Kaladin wiped his brow. He met Gazs eye for a long moment, then turned back to the men. There was still time to practice hauling the bridge before breakfast. Gaz had never gotten used to having just one eye. Could a man get used to that? Hed rather have lost a hand or a leg than that eye. He couldnt stop feeling that something hid in that darkness he couldnt see, but others could. What lurked there? Spren that would drain his soul from his body? The way a rat could empty an entire wineskin by chewing the corner? His companions called him lucky. That blow could have taken your life. Well, at least then he wouldnt have had to live with that darkness. One of his eyes was always closed. Close the other, and the darkness swallowed him. Gaz glanced left, and the darkness scuttled to the side. Lamaril stood leaning against a post, tall and slim. He was not a massive man, but he was not weak. He was all lines. Rectangular beard. Rectangular body. Sharp. Like a knife. Lamaril waved Gaz over, so he reluctantly approached. Then he took a sphere out of his pouch and passed it over. A topaz mark. He hated losing it. He always hated losing money. You owe me twice as much as this, Lamaril noted, raising the sphere up to look through it as it sparkled in the sunlight. Well, thats all youll get for now. Be glad you get anything. Be glad Ive kept my mouth shut, Lamaril said lazily, leaning back against his post. It was one that marked the edge of the lumberyard. Gaz gritted his teeth. He hated to pay, but what else could he do? Storms take him. Raging storms take him! You have a problem, it seems, Lamaril said. At first, Gaz thought he meant the half payment. The lighteyed man nodded toward Bridge Fours barracks. Gaz eyed the bridgemen, unsettled. The youthful bridgeleader barked an order, and the bridgemen raced the span of the lumberyard in a jog. He already had them running in time with one another. That one change meant so much. It sped them up, helped them think like a team. Could this boy actually have military training, as hed once claimed? Why