Kaladin looked down, realizing for the first time that he was crusted with dark, flaking blood, most belonging to the men hed worked on. He didnt answer the question. Were taking our wounded with us. Gaz shook his head. If they cant walk, they stay behind. Standing orders. Not my choice. Were taking them, Kaladin said, no more firm, no more loud. Brightlord Lamaril wont stand for it. Lamaril was Gazs immediate superior. Youll send Bridge Four last, to lead the wounded soldiers back to camp. Lamaril wont go with that troop; hell go on ahead with the main body, as he wont want to miss Sadeass victory feast. Gaz opened his mouth. My men will move quickly and efficiently, Kaladin said, interrupting him. They wont slow anyone. He took the last sphere from his pocket and handed it over. You wont say anything. Gaz took the sphere, snorting. One clearmark? You think that will make me take a risk this big? If you dont, Kaladin said, voice calm, I will kill you and let them execute me. Gaz blinked in surprise. Youd never Kaladin took a single step forward. He must have looked a dreadful sight, covered in blood. Gaz paled. Then he cursed, holding up the dark sphere. And a dun sphere at that. Kaladin frowned. He was sure it had still glowed before the bridge run. Thats your fault. You gave it to me. Those spheres were newly infused last night, Gaz said. They came straight from Brightlord Sadeass treasurer. What did you do with them? Kaladin shook his head, too exhausted to think. Syl landed on his shoulder as he turned to walk back to the bridgemen. What are they to you? Gaz called after him. Why do you even care? Theyre my men. He left Gaz behind. I dont trust him, Syl said, looking over her shoulder. He could just say you threatened him and send men to arrest you. Maybe he will, Kaladin said. I guess I just have to count on him wanting more of my bribes. Kaladin continued on, listening to the shouts of the victors and the groans of their wounded. The plateaus were littered with corpses, bunched up along the edges of the chasm, where the bridges had made a focus for the battle. The Parshendias alwayshad left their dead behind. Even when they won, they