Because, Jest said, weve gotta prepare men to fight for the Tranquiline Halls. Weve gotta send soldiers to the Heralds. The ardents are always talking of it. In the same breaths that they tell us its all right to be a farmer too, Khav said. Like, farmings some lonely second place or something. Hey, Tift said. My fahs a farmer, and hes right good at it. Its a noble Calling! All your fahs are farmers. All right, fine, Jost said. But we aint talking of that. Were talking of Shardbearers. You go to war, you can win a Shardblade and become a light-eyes. My fah, see, he should have been given that Shardblade. But the man who was with him, he took it while my fah was knocked out. Told the officer that hed been the one to kill the Shardbearer, so he got the Blade, and my fah He was cut off by Larals tinkling laughter. Kal frowned. That was a different kind of laughter than he normally heard from her, much more subdued and kind of annoying. Jost, youre claiming your father won a Shardblade ? she said. No. It was taken from him, the larger boy said. Didnt your father fight in the wastescum skirmishes up north? Laral said. Tell him, Kaladin. Shes right, Jost. There werent any Shardbearers therejust Reshi raiders who thought theyd take advantage of the new king. Theyve never had any Shardblades. If your father saw one, he must be remembering incorrectly. Remembering incorrectly? Jost said. Er, sure, Kal said quickly. Im not saying hes lying, Jost. He just might have some trauma-induced hallucinations, or something like that. The boys grew silent, looking at Kal. One scratched his head. Jost spat to the side. He seemed to be watching Laral from the corner of his eye. She pointedly looked at Kal and smiled at him. You always got to make a man feel like an idiot, dont you, Kal? Jost said. What? No, I You want to make my fah sound like a fool, Jost said, face red. And you want to make me sound stupid. Well, some of us aint lucky enough to spend our days eating fruit and laying about. Weve got to work. I dont Jost tossed the quarterstaff to Kal. He caught it awkwardly. Then Jost took the other staff from his brother. You insult my fah, you get a fight. Thats honor. You have honor, lordling? Im no lordling, Kal spat. Stormfather, Jost, Im only a few nahn higher than you are.