Philosophy is an important field of study, Jasnah said sternly. Particularly if youre going to be involved in court politics. The nature of morality must be considered, and preferably before one is exposed to situations where a moral decision is required. Yes, Brightness. Though I fail to see how philosophy is more hands-on than history. History, by definition, cannot be experienced directly. As it is happening, it is the present, and that is philosophys realm. Thats just a matter of definition. Yes, Jasnah said, all words have a tendency to be subject to how they are defined. I suppose, Shallan said, leaning back, letting Jasnah dunk her hair to clean off the soap. The princess began scrubbing her skin with mildly abrasive soap. That was a particularly bland response, Shallan. What happened to your wit? Shallan glanced at the bench and its precious fabrial. After all this time, she had proven too weak to do what needed to be done. My wit is on temporary hiatus, Brightness, she said. Pending review by its colleagues, sincerity and temerity. Jasnah raised an eyebrow at her. Shallan sat back on her heels, still kneeling on the towel. How do you know what is right, Jasnah? If you dont listen to the devotaries, how do you decide? That depends upon ones philosophy. What is most important to you? I dont know. Cant you tell me? No, Jasnah replied. If I gave you the answers, Id be no better than the devotaries, prescribing beliefs. They arent evil, Jasnah. Except when they try to rule the world. Shallan drew her lips into a thin line. The War of Loss had destroyed the Hierocracy, shattering Vorinism into the devotaries. That was the inevitable result of a religion trying to rule. The devotaries were to teach morals, not enforce them. Enforcement was for the lighteyes. You say you cant give me answers, Shallan said. But cant I ask for the advice of someone wise? Someone whos gone before? Why write our philosophies, draw our conclusions, if not to influence others? You yourself told me that information is worthless unless we use it to make judgments. Jasnah smiled, dunking her arms and washing off the soap. Shallan caught a victorious glimmer in her eye. She wasnt necessarily advocating ideas because she believed them; she just wanted to push Shallan. It was infuriating. How was