He and his soldiers departed, leaving the unfortunate conscripts. Some wore decent clothing; theyd be recently caught criminals. The rest had slave brands on their foreheads. Seeing them brought back feelings that Kaladin had to force down. He still stood on the very top of a steep slope; one wrong step could send him tumbling back down into that despair. In a line, you cremlings, Gaz snapped at the new recruits, pulling free his cudgel and waving it. He eyed Kaladin, but said nothing. The group of men hastily lined up. Gaz counted down the line, picking out the taller members. You five men, youre in Bridge Six. Remember that. Forget it, and Ill see you get a whipping. He counted off another group. You six men, youre in Bridge Fourteen. You four at the end, Bridge Three. You, you, and you, Bridge One. Bridge Two doesnt need anyYou four, Bridge Seven. That was all of them. Gaz, Kaladin said, folding his arms. Syl landed on his shoulder, her small tempest of leaves forming into a young woman. Gaz turned to him. Bridge Four is down to thirty fighting members. Bridge Six and Bridge Fourteen have fewer than that. They each had twenty-nine and you just gave them both a big helping of new members. And Bridge One is at thirty-seven, and you sent them three new men. You barely lost anyone on the last run, and Kaladin caught Gazs arm as the sergeant tried to walk away. Gaz flinched, lifting his cudgel. Try it, Kaladin thought, meeting Gazs eyes. He almost wished that the sergeant would. Gaz gritted his teeth. Fine. One man. I pick him, Kaladin said. Whatever. Theyre all worthless anyway. Kaladin turned to the group of new bridgemen. Theyd gathered into clusters by which bridge crew Gaz had put them in. Kaladin immediately turned his attention to the taller men. By slave standards, they appeared well fed. Two of them looked like theyd Hey, gancho! a voice said from another group. Hey! You want me, I think. Kaladin turned. A short, spindly man was waving to him. The man had only one arm. Who would assign him to be a bridgeman? Hed stop an arrow, Kaladin thought. Thats all some bridgemen are good