from her sight. If we make her work and chase after me, thoughShe can be very ruthless, Balat. It would not go well for us. The response was long in coming. When did you get so good at logic, small one? he finally sent. I see that youve thought this through. Better than I have, at least. But Shallan, our time is running out. I know, she wrote. You said you could hold things together for a few more months. I ask you to do that. Give me two or three weeks, at least, to see what Jasnah does. Besides, while I am here, I can look into how the thing works. I havent found any books that give hints, but there are so many here, maybe I just havent found the right one yet. Very well, he wrote. A few weeks. Be careful, small one. The men who gave Father his fabrial visited again. They asked after you. Im worried about them. Even more than I worry about our finances. They disturb me in a profound way. Farewell. Farewell, she wrote back. So far, there had been no hint of reaction from the princess. She hadnt even mentioned the Soulcaster. That made Shallan nervous. She wished that Jasnah would just say something. The waiting was excruciating. Each day, while she sat with Jasnah, Shallans stomach churned with anxiety until she was nauseated. At leastconsidering the killings a few days agoShallan had a very good excuse for looking disturbed. Cold, calm logic. Jasnah herself would be proud. A knock came at the door, and Shallan quickly gathered up the conversation shed had with Nan Balat and burned it in the hearth. A palace maid entered a moment later, carrying a basket in the crook of her arm. She smiled at Shallan. It was time for the daily cleaning. Shallan had a strange moment of panic at seeing the woman. She wasnt one of the maids Shallan recognized. What if Jasnah had sent her or someone else to search Shallans room? Had she done so already? Shallan nodded to the woman and thento assuage her worriesshe walked to her room and closed the door. She rushed to the chest and checked the hidden compartment. The fabrial was there. She lifted it out, inspecting it. Would she know if Jasnah somehow reversed the exchange? Youre being foolish, she told herself. Jasnahs subtle, but shes not that subtle. Still, Shallan stuffed the Soulcaster in her safepouch. It just barely fit inside the envelope-like cloth container. Shed feel safer knowing she had it on her while the maid cleaned her room. Besides, the safepouch might be a better hiding place for it than her trunk. By tradition, a womans safepouch was where she kept items of intimate or