knives, and held the sinew to keep it from tangling as his father sewed. They repaired the hand so far as they could, working with deliberate speed. Kals father finished the final suture, obviously pleased at having been able to save four of the fingers. That wasnt how Sanis parents would see it. Theyd be disappointed that their beautiful daughter would now have a disfigured hand. It almost always happened that wayterror at the initial wound, then anger at Lirins inability to work wonders. Lirin said it was because the townsfolk had grown accustomed to having a surgeon. To them, the healing had become an expectation, rather than a privilege. But Sanis parents were good people. Theyd make a small donation, and Kals familyhis parents, him, and his younger brother Tienwould continue to be able to eat. Odd, how they survived because of others misfortune. Maybe that was part of what made the townsfolk resent them. Lirin finished by using a small heated rod to cauterize where he felt the stitches wouldnt be enough. Finally, he spread pungent listers oil across the hand to prevent infectionthe oil frightened away rotspren even better than soap and water. Kal wrapped on clean bandages, careful not to disturb the splints. Lirin disposed of the finger, and Kal began to relax. Shed be all right. You still need to work on those nerves of yours, son, Lirin said softly, washing blood from his hands. Kal looked down. It is good to care, Lirin said. But caringlike anything elsecan be a problem if it interferes with your ability to perform surgery. Caring too much can be a problem? Kal thought back at his father. And what about being so selfless that you never charge for your work? He didnt dare say the words. Cleaning the room came next. It seemed like half of Kals life was spent cleaning, but Lirin wouldnt let him go until they were done with it. At least he opened the shutters, letting sunlight stream in. Sani continued to doze; the winterwort would keep her unconscious for hours yet. So where were you? Lirin asked, bottles of oil and alcohol clinking as he returned them to their places. With Jam. Jam is two years your senior, Lirin said. I doubt he has much fondness for spending his time with those much younger than he. His father started training him in the quarterstaff, Kal said in a rush. Tien and I went to see what hes learned. Kal cringed, waiting for the lecture. His father just continued, wiping down each of his surgeons knives with