Rock was the first to the door when the highstorm subsided. Teft followed more slowly, groaning to himself. His knees hurt. His knees always hurt near a storm. His grandfather had complained about that in his later years, and Teft had called him daft. Now he felt it too. Storming Damnation, he thought, wearily stepping outside. It was still raining, of course. These were the after-flurries of drizzle that trailed a highstorm, the riddens. A few rainspren sat in puddles, like blue candles, and a few windspren danced in the stormwinds. The rain was cold, and he splashed through puddles that soaked his sandaled feet, chilling them straight through the skin and muscle. He hated being wet. But, then, he hated a lot of things. For a while, life had been looking up. Not now. How did everything go so wrong so quickly? he thought, holding his arms close, walking slowly and watching his feet. Some soldiers had left their barracks and stood nearby, wearing raincloaks, watching. Probably to make certain nobody had snuck out to cut Kaladin down early. They didnt try to stop Rock, though. The storm had passed. Rock charged around the side of the building. Other bridgemen left the barrack behind as Teft followed Rock. Storming Horneater. Like a big lumbering chull. He actually believed. He thought theyd find that foolish young bridgeleader alive. Probably figured theyd discover him having a nice cup of tea, relaxing in the shade with the Stormfather himself. And you dont believe? Teft asked himself, still looking down. If you dont, why are you following? But if you did believe, youd look. You wouldnt stare at your feet. Youd look up and see. Could a man both believe, and not believe, at the same time? Teft stopped beside Rock andsteeling himselflooked up at the wall of the barrack. There he saw what hed expected and what hed feared. The corpse looked like a hunk of slaughter house meat, skinned and bled. Was that a person? Kaladins skin was sliced in a hundred places, dribbles of blood mixing with rainwater running down the side of the building. The lads body still hung by the ankles. His shirt had been ripped off; his bridgeman trousers were ragged. Ironically, his face was cleaner now than when theyd left him, washed by the storm. Teft had seen enough dead men on the battlefield to know what he was looking at. Poor lad, he thought, shaking his head as the rest of Bridge Four gathered around him and Rock, quiet, horrified. You almost made me believe in you.