also the one who had forbidden the surgeons hall to give supplies to bridgemen, slaves, and servants of the lesser nahns. By the time he finished stretching, a handful of bridgemen had risen to get something to drink. They stood around the barrel, regarding Kaladin. There was only one thing to do. Setting his jaw, Kaladin crossed the lumber grounds and located the plank hed carried the day before. The carpenters hadnt yet added it to their bridge, so Kaladin picked it up and walked back to the barracks. Then he began practicing the same way he had yesterday. He couldnt go as fast. In fact, much of the time, he could only walk. But as he worked, his aches soothed. His headache faded. His feet and shoulders still hurt, and he had a deep, latent exhaustion. But he didnt embarrass himself by falling over. In his practice, he passed the other bridgeman barracks. The men in front of them were barely distinguishable from those in Bridge Four. The same dark, sweat-stained leather vests over bare chests or loosely tied shirts. There was the occasional foreigner, Thaylens or Vedens most often. But they were unified in their scraggly appearances, unshaven faces, and haunted eyes. Several groups watched Kaladin with outright hostility. Were they worried that his practice would encourage their own bridgeleaders to work them? He had hoped that some members of Bridge Four might join his work-out. Theyd obeyed him during the battle, after all, even going so far as to help him with the wounded. His hope was in vain. While some bridgemen watched, others ignored him. None took part. Eventually, Syl flitted down and landed on the end of his plank, riding like a queen on her palanquin. Theyre talking about you, she said as he passed the Bridge Four barrack again. Not surprising, Kaladin said between puffs. Some think youve gone mad, she said. Like that man who just sits and stares at the floor. They say the battle stress broke your mind. Maybe theyre right. I didnt consider that. What is madness? she asked, sitting with one leg up against her chest, vaporous skirt flickering around her calves and vanishing into mist. Its when men dont think right, Kaladin said, glad for the conversation to distract him. Men never seem to think right. Madness is worse than normal, Kaladin said with a smile. It really just depends on the people around you. How different are you from them? The person that stands out is mad, I guess. So you all justvote on it? she asked, screwing up her face.