Hold it up beside your head, Shallan said, so I can see myself. He walked back over, doing so, looking confused. Angle it to the side a little, Shallan said, all right, there. She blinked, freezing in her mind the image of her face beside his. Have a seat. You dont need the mirror any longer. I just wanted it for referenceit helps me for some reason to place my features into the scene I want to sketch. Ill put myself sitting beside you. He sat on the floor, and Shallan began to work, using it to distract herself from her conflicting emotions. Guilt at not feeling as strongly for Kabsal as he did for her, yet sorrow that she wouldnt be seeing him anymore. And above it all, anxiety about the Soulcaster. Sketching herself in beside him was challenging. She worked furiously, blending the reality of Kabsal sitting and a fiction of herself, in her flower- embroidered dress, sitting with her legs to the side. The face in the mirror became her reference point, and she built her head around it. Too narrow to be beautiful, with hair too light, cheeks dotted with freckles. The Soulcaster, she thought. Being here in Kharbranth with it is a danger. But leaving is dangerous too. Could there be a third option? What if I sent it away? She hesitated, charcoal pencil hovering above the picture. Dared she send the fabrialpackaged, delivered to Tozbek in secretback to Jah Keved without her? She wouldnt have to worry about being incriminated if her room or person were searched, though shed want to destroy all pictures shed drawn of Jasnah with the Soulcaster. And she wouldnt risk suspicion by vanishing when Jasnah discovered her Soulcaster didnt work. She continued her drawing, increasingly withdrawn into her thoughts, letting her fingers work. If she sent the Soulcaster back alone, then she could stay in Kharbranth. It was a golden, tempting prospect, but one that threw her emotions further into a jumbled mess. Shed been preparing herself to leave for so long. What would she do about Kabsal? And Jasnah. Could Shallan really remain here, accepting Jasnahs freely given tutelage, after what shed done? Yes, Shallan thought. Yes, I could. The fervency of that emotion surprised her. She would live with the guilt, day by day, if it meant continuing to learn. It was terribly selfish of her, and she was ashamed of it. But she would do it for a little longer, at least. Shed have to go back eventually, of course. She couldnt leave her brothers to face danger alone. They needed her. Selfishness, followed by courage. She was nearly as surprised by the latter as she had been by the former. Neither was something she often associated with