All who can fight are needed, the woman said. And all who have a desire to fight should be compelled to come to Alethela. Fighting, even this fighting against the Ten Deaths, changes a person. We can teach you so that it will not destroy you. Come to us. Dalinar found himself nodding. Every pasture needs three things, the woman said, voice changing, as if she were quoting from memory. Flocks to grow, herdsmen to tend, and watchers at the rim. We of Alethela are those watchersthe warriors who protect and fight. We maintain the terrible arts of killing, then pass them on to others when the Desolation comes. The Desolation, he said. That means the Voidbringers, right? Those are what we fought this night? The knight sniffed dismissively. Voidbringers? These? No, this was Midnight Essence, though who released it is still a mystery. She looked to the side, expression growing distant. Harkaylain says the Desolation is close, and he is not often wrong. He A sudden screaming sounded in the night. The knight cursed, looking toward it. Wait here. Call out if the Essence returns. I will hear. She dashed off into the darkness. Dalinar raised a hand, torn between following and staying to watch over Taffa and her daughter. Stormfather! he thought, realizing theyd been left in darkness, now that the knights glowing armor was gone. He turned back to Taffa. She stood on the trail beside him, eyes looking oddly distracted. Taffa? he asked. I miss these times, Taffa said. Dalinar jumped. That voice wasnt hers. It was a mans voice, deep and powerful. It was the voice that spoke to him during every vision. Who are you? Dalinar asked. They were one, once, Taffaor whatever it wassaid. The orders. Men. Not without problems or strife, of course. But focused. Dalinar felt a chill. Something about that voice always seemed faintly familiar to him. It had even in the first vision. Please. You have to tell me what this is, why you are showing me these things. Who are you? Some servant of the Almighty? I wish I could help you, Taffa said, looking at Dalinar but ignoring his questions. You have to unite them. As youve said before! But I need help. The things the knight said about Alethkar. Are they true? Can we really be that way again?