Gabrathin, Yustara, Manaline, Syasikk, Shauka-daughter-Hasweth? Shallan cringed and shook her head again. That last name was obviously Shin. Did the Shin people even have logicmasters? Did Jasnah really expect her wards to have studied such obscure texts? I see, Jasnah said. Well, what of history? History. Shallan shrank down even further. IThis is one of the areas where Im obviously deficient, Brightness. My father was never able to find a suitable tutor for me. I read the history books he owned. Which were? The entire set of Barlesha Lhans Topics , mostly. Jasnah waved her freehand dismissively. Barely worth the time spent scribing them. A popular survey of historical events at best. I apologize, Brightness. This is an embarrassing hole. History is the most important of the literary subarts. One would think that your parents would have taken specific care in this area, if theyd hoped to submit you to study under a historian like myself. My circumstances are unusual, Brightness. Ignorance is hardly unusual, Miss Davar. The longer I live, the more I come to realize that it is the natural state of the human mind. There are many who will strive to defend its sanctity and then expect you to be impressed with their efforts. Shallan blushed again. Shed realized she had some deficiencies, but Jasnah had unreasonable expectations. She said nothing, continuing to walk beside the taller woman. How long was this hallway, anyway? She was so flustered she didnt even look at the paintings they passed. They turned a corner, walking deeper into the mountainside. Well, let us move on to science, then, Jasnah said, tone displeased. What can you say of yourself there? I have the reasonable foundation in the sciences you might expect of a young woman my age, Shallan said, more stiffly than she would have liked. Which means? I can speak with skill about geography, geology, physics, and chemistry. Ive made particular study of biology and botany, as I was able to pursue them with a reasonable level of independence on my fathers estates. But if you expect me to be able to solve Fabrisans Conundrum with a wave of my hand, I suspect you shall be disappointed. Have I not a right to make reasonable demands of my potential students, Miss Davar? Reasonable? Your demands are about as reasonable as the ones made of