focused on only one thing. Destroying Kaladin and his men. Kaladin screamed the alarm, but he felt so sluggish, so tired. The bridgemen around him turned as the archers drew. Sadeass men normally defended the chasm to keep Parshendi from pushing over the bridges and cutting off their escape. But this time, noticing that the archers werent trying to drop the bridges, the soldiers didnt hasten to stop them. They left the bridgemen to die, instead cutting off the Parshendi route to the bridges themselves. Kaladins men were exposed. Perfect targets. No, Kaladin thought. No! It cant happen like this. Not after A force crashed into the Parshendi line. A single figure in slate-grey armor, wielding a sword as long as many men were tall. The Shardbearer swept through the distracted archers with urgency, slicing into their ranks. Arrows flew toward Kaladins team, but they were loosed too early, aimed poorly. A few came close as the bridgemen ducked for cover, but nobody was hit. Parshendi fell before the sweeping Blade of the Shardbearer, some toppling into the chasm, others scrambling back. The rest died with burned-out eyes. In seconds, the squad of fifty archers had been reduced to corpses. The Shardbearers honor guard caught up with him. He turned, armor seeming to glow as he raised his Blade in a salute of respect toward the bridgemen. Then he charged off in another direction. That was him, Drehy said, standing up. Dalinar Kholin. The kings uncle! He saved us! Lopen said. Bah. Moash dusted himself off. He just saw a group of undefended archers and took the chance to strike. Lighteyes dont care about us. Right, Kaladin? Kaladin stared at the place where the archers had stood. In one moment, he could have lost it all. Kaladin? Moash said. Youre right, Kaladin found himself saying. Just an opportunity taken. Except, why raise the Blade toward Kaladin? From now on, Kaladin said, we pull back farther after the soldiers cross. They used to ignore us after the battle began, but they wont any longer. What I did todaywhat were all going to be doing soonwill make them mighty angry. Angry enough to be stupid, but also angry enough to see us dead. For now, Leyten, Narm, find good scouting points and watch the field. I want to know if any Parshendi make moves toward that chasm. Ill get this man bandaged and well pull back.