Kaladin worked with the ease of one who had bound wounds dozens of times before. Kaladin, sir! Cenn said, pointing at one of the soldiers Kaladin had wounded. The enemy man held his leg as he stumbled to his feet. In a second, however, mountainous Dallet was there, shoving the foe with his shield. Dallet didnt kill the wounded man, but let him stumble away, unarmed. The rest of the squad arrived and formed a ring around Kaladin, Dallet, and Cenn. Kaladin stood up, raising his spear to his shoulder; Dallet handed him back his knives, retrieved from the fallen foes. Had me worried there, sir, Dallet said. Running off like that. I knew youd follow, Kaladin said. Raise the red banner. Cyn, Korater, youre going back with the boy. Dallet, hold here. Amarams line is bulging in this direction. We should be safe soon. And you, sir? Dallet asked. Kaladin looked across the field. A pocket had opened in the enemy forces, and a man rode there on a white horse, swinging about him with a wicked mace. He wore full plate armor, polished and gleaming silver. A Shardbearer, Cenn said. Dallet snorted. No, thank the Stormfather. Just a lighteyed officer. Shardbearers are far too valuable to waste on a minor border dispute. Kaladin watched the lighteyes with a seething hatred. It was the same hatred Cenns father had shown when hed spoken of chull rustlers, or the hatred Cenns mother would display when someone mentioned Kusiri, who had run off with the cobblers son. Sir? Dallet said hesitantly. Subsquads Two and Three, pincer pattern, Kaladin said, his voice hard. Were taking a brightlord off his throne. You sure thats wise, sir? Weve got wounded. Kaladin turned toward Dallet. Thats one of Hallaws officers. He might be the one. You dont know that, sir. Regardless, hes a battalionlord. If we kill an officer that high, were all but guaranteed to be in the next group sent to the Shattered Plains. Were taking him. His eyes grew distant. Imagine it, Dallet. Real soldiers. A warcamp with discipline and lighteyes with integrity. A place where our fighting will mean something. Dallet sighed, but nodded. Kaladin waved to a group of his soldiers; then they raced across the field. A smaller group of soldiers, including Dallet, waited behind with the wounded. One of thosea thin man with black Alethi hair