Kaladin gripped the rope with his legs to hold himself in place, then used his hands to pull up the length underneath, hoisting up the sack full of armor. Using the rope on the short end of the knot, he slipped his pouch of dun spheres into the sack with the armor, then tied it into place underneath the bridge wherehe hopedLopen and Dabbid would be able to get to it from above. He looked down. The ground looked so much more distant than it would have from the bridge above. From this slightly different perspective, everything changed. He didnt get vertigo from the height. Instead, he felt a little surge of excitement. Something about him had always liked being up high. It felt natural. It was being belowtrapped in holes and unable to see the world that was depressing. He considered his next move. What? Syl asked, stepping up to him, standing on air. If I leave the rope here, someone might spot it while crossing the bridge. So cut it free. He looked at her, raising an eyebrow. While dangling from it? Youll be fine. Thats a forty-foot drop! Id break bones at the very least. No, Syl said. I feel right about this, Kaladin. Youll be fine. Trust me. Trust you? Syl, youve said yourself that your memory is fractured! You insulted me the other week, she said, folding her arms. I think you owe me an apology. Im supposed to apologize by cutting a rope and dropping forty feet? No, you apologize by trusting me. I told you. I feel right about this. He sighed, looking down again. His Stormlight was running out. What else could he do? Leaving the rope would be foolish. Could he tie it in another knot, one he could shake free once at the bottom? If that type of knot existed, he didnt know how to tie it. He clenched his teeth. Then, as the last of his rocks fell off and clattered to the ground, he took a deep breath and pulled out the Parshendi knife hed taken earlier. He moved swiftly, before he had a chance to reconsider, and sliced the rope free. He dropped in a rush, one hand still holding the sliced rope, stomach lurching with the jarring distress of falling. The bridge shot away as if rising, and Kaladins panicked mind immediately sent his eyes downward. This wasnt beautiful. This was terrifying. It was horrible. He was going to die! He Its all right. His emotions calmed in a heartbeat. Somehow, he knew what to do. He twisted in the air, dropping the rope and hitting the ground with both feet