could be valuable as a redundancy. The merchants already provide redundancy, Dalinar said. Which is one of the reasons I havent chased them off. I wouldnt mind another, but the Soulcasters are the only hold we have on the highprinces. They owed Gavilar loyalty, but they feel little of that for his son. Dalinar narrowed his eyes. This is a vital point, Teshav. Have you read the histories I suggested? Yes, Brightlord. Then you know. The most fragile period in a kingdoms existence comes during the lifetime of its founders heir. During the reign of a man like Gavilar, men stay loyal because of their respect for him. During subsequent generations, men begin to see themselves as part of a kingdom, a united force that holds together because of tradition. But the sons reignthats the dangerous point. Gavilar isnt here to hold everyone together, but there isnt yet a tradition of Alethkar being a kingdom. Weve got to carry on long enough for the highprinces to begin seeing themselves as part of a greater whole. Yes, Brightlord. She didnt question. Teshav was deeply loyal to him, as were most of his officers. They didnt question why it was so important to him that the ten princedoms regard themselves as one nation. Perhaps they assumed it was because of Gavilar. Indeed, his brothers dream of a united Alethkar was part of it. There was something else, though. The Everstorm comes. The True Desolation. The Night of Sorrows. He suppressed a shiver. The visions certainly didnt make it sound like he had a great deal of time to prepare. Draft a missive in the kings name, Dalinar said, decreasing Soulcasting costs for those who have made their payments on time. That should wake up the others. Give it to Elhokars scribes and have them explain it to him. Hopefully he will agree with the need. Yes, Brightlord, Teshav said. If I might note, I was quite surprised that you suggested I read those histories. In the past, such things havent been particular to your interests. I do a lot of things lately that arent particular to my interests or my talents, Dalinar said with a grimace. My lack of capacity doesnt change the kingdoms needs. Have you gathered reports of banditry in the area? Yes, Brightlord. She hesitated. The rates are quite alarming. Tell your husband I give him command of the Fourth Battalion, Dalinar said. I want the two of you to work out a better pattern of patrol in the Unclaimed Hills. So long as the Alethi monarchy has a presence here, I do not