things for miles around that broke the surface of the Purelake. Other people walked about here, moving with the same slow gait. It was possible to run through the water, but there was rarely a reason. What could be so important that you had to go and make a splash and ruckus getting to it? Ishikk shook his head at that. Only foreigners were so hasty. He nodded to Thaspic, a dark-skinned man who passed him pulling a small raft. It was stacked with a few piles of cloth; hed probably taken them out for washing. Ho, Ishikk, the scrawny man said. Hows fishing? Terrible, he called. Vun Makak has blighted me right good today. And you? Lost a shirt while washing, Thaspic replied, his voice pleasant. Ah, thats the way of things. Are my foreigners here? Sure are. Over at Maibs place. Vun Makak send they dont eat her out of home, Ishikk said, continuing on his way. Or infect her with their constant worries. Sun and tides send it! Thaspic said with a chuckle, continuing on. Maibs house was near the center of the village. Ishikk wasnt sure what made her want to live inside the building. Most nights he did just fine sleeping on his raft. It never got cold in the Purelake, except during highstorms, and you could last through those right well, Nu Ralik send the way. The Purelake drained into pits and holes when the storms came, and so you just shoved your raft into a crevice between two ridges of stone and huddled up next to it, using it to break the fury of the tempest. The storms werent so bad out here as they were in the East, where they flung boulders and blew down buildings. Oh, hed heard stories about that sort of life. Nu Ralik send he never had to go to such a terrible place. Besides, it was probably cold there. Ishikk pitied those who had to live in the cold. Why didnt they just come to the Purelake? Nu Ralik send that they dont, he thought, walking up to Maibs place. If everyone knew how nice the Purelake was, surely theyd all want to live here, and there wouldnt be a place to walk without stumbling over some foreigner! He stepped up into the building, exposing his calves to the air. The floor was low enough that a few inches of water still covered it; Purelakers liked it that way. It was natural, though if the tide dropped, sometimes buildings would drain. Minnows shot out around his toes. Common types, not worth anything. Maib stood inside, fixing a pot of fish soup, and she nodded to him. She was a stout woman and had been chasing Ishikk for years, trying to bait him to wed her on account of her fine cooking. He just might let her catch him someday.