The man kept fighting. Adolin Kholin! Kaladin yelled again, feeling a little puff of Stormlight leave him, his voice booming. The Shardbearer paused, then looked back at Kaladin. Reluctantly, the Shardbearer pulled back, letting the Cobalt Guardusing the path opened by Kaladinrush forward and hold back the Parshendi. Who are you? Adolin demanded, reaching Kaladin. His proud, youthful face was slick with sweat, his hair a matted mess of blond mixed with black. Im the man who saved your life, Kaladin said. I need you to order the retreat. Your troops cant fight any longer. My father is out there, bridgeman, Adolin said, pointing with his overly large Blade. I saw him just moments ago. His Ryshadium went for him, but neither horse nor man has returned. Im going to lead a squad to You are going to retreat ! Kaladin said, exasperated. Look at your men, Kholin! They can barely keep their feet, let alone fight. Youre losing dozens by the minute. You need to get them out. I wont abandon my father, Adolin said stubbornly. For the peace of If you fall, Adolin Kholin, these men have nothing . Their commanders are wounded or dead. You cant go to your father; you can barely walk! I repeat, get your men to safety ! The young Shardbearer stepped back, blinking at Kaladins tone. He looked northeastward, toward where a figure in slate grey suddenly appeared on a rock outcropping, fighting against another figure in Shardplate. Hes so close. Kaladin took a deep breath. Ill go for him. You lead the retreat. Hold the bridge, but only the bridge. Adolin glared at Kaladin. He took a step, but something in his armor gave out, and he stumbled, going to one knee. Teeth gritted, he managed to rise. Captainlord Malan, Adolin bellowed. Take your soldiers, go with this man. Get my father out! The man Kaladin had spoken to earlier saluted crisply. Adolin glared at Kaladin again, then hefted his Shardblade and stalked with difficulty toward the bridge. Moash, go with him, Kaladin said. But Do it, Moash, Kaladin said grimly, glancing toward the outcropping where Dalinar fought. Kaladin took a deep breath, tucked his spear under his arm, and dashed off at a dead run. The Cobalt Guard yelled at him, trying to keep up, but he didnt look back. He hit the line of Parshendi attackers, turned and tripped two with his spear, then