A few hours later, Kaladin sat on a chunk of wood beside Bridge Fours nightly fire. Syl sat on his knee, having taken the form of a small, translucent blue and white flame. Shed come to him during the march back, spinning around gleefully to see him up and walking, but had given no explanation for her absence. The real fire crackled and popped, Rocks large pot bubbling on top of it, some flamespren dancing on the logs. Every couple of seconds, someone asked Rock if the stew was done yet, often banging on his bowl with a good-natured smack of the spoon. Rock said nothing, stirring. They all knew that nobody ate until he declared the stew finished; he was very particular about not serving inferior food. The air smelled of boiling dumplings. The men were laughing. Their bridgeleader had survived execution and todays bridge run hadnt cost a single casualty. Spirits were high. Except for Kaladins. He understood now. He understood just how futile their struggle was. He understood why Sadeas hadnt bothered to acknowledge Kaladins survival. He was already a bridgeman, and being a bridgeman was a death sentence. Kaladin had hoped to show Sadeas that his bridge crew could be efficient and useful. Hed hoped to prove that they deserved protectionshields, armor, training. Kaladin thought that if they acted like soldiers, maybe they would be seen as soldiers. None of that would work. A bridgeman who survived was, by definition, a bridgeman who had failed. His men laughed and enjoyed the fire. They trusted him. Hed done the impossible, surviving a highstorm, wounded, tied to a wall. Surely he would perform another miracle, this time for them. They were good men, but they thought like foot soldiers. The officers and the lighteyes would worry about the long term. The men were fed and happy, and that was enough for now. Not for Kaladin. He found himself face-to-face with the man hed left behind. The one hed abandoned that night hed decided not to throw himself into the chasm. A man with haunted eyes, a man who had given up on caring or hoping. A walking corpse. Im going to fail them, he thought. He couldnt let them continue running bridges, dying off one by one. But he also couldnt think of an alternative. And so their laughter tore at him. One of the menMapsstood, holding up his arms, quieting the others. It was the time between moons, and so he was lit mostly by the firelight; there was