of the creatures and people shed seen, and while her worry over her houses finances was a perpetual cloud, it was balanced by the sheer delight of experience. Tozbek began making dock arrangements for his ship. He was a good man. As for his praise of her supposed beauty, she took that for what it was. A kind, if overstated, mark of affection. She was pale-skinned in an era when Alethi tan was seen as the mark of true beauty, and though she had light blue eyes, her impure family line was manifest in her auburn-red hair. Not a single lock of proper black. Her freckles had faded as she reached young womanhood Heralds be blessedbut there were still some visible, dusting her cheeks and nose. Young miss, the captain said to her after conferring with his men, Your Brightness Jasnah, shell undoubtedly be at the Conclave, you see. Oh, where the Palanaeum is? Yes, yes. And the king lives there too. Its the center of the city, so to speak. Except its on the top. He scratched his chin. Well, anyway, Brightness Jasnah Kholin is sister to a king; she will stay nowhere else, not in Kharbranth. Yalb here will show you the way. We can deliver your trunk later. Many thanks, Captain, she said.  Shaylor mkabat nour . The winds have brought us safely. A phrase of thanks in the Thaylen language. The captain smiled broadly.  Mkai bade fortenthis!  She had no idea what that meant. Her Thaylen was quite good when she was reading, but hearing it spoken was something else entirely. She smiled at him, which seemed the proper response, for he laughed, gesturing to one of his sailors. Well wait here in this dock for two days, he told her. There is a highstorm coming tomorrow, you see, so we cannot leave. If the situation with the Brightness Jasnah does not proceed as hoped, well take you back to Jah Keved. Thank you again. Tis nothing, young miss, he said. Nothing but what wed be doing anyway. We can take on goods here and all. Besides, thats a right nice likeness of my wife you gave me for my cabin. Right nice. He strode over to Yalb, giving him instructions. Shallan waited, putting her drawing pad back into her leather portfolio. Yalb. The name was difficult for her Veden tongue to pronounce. Why were the Thaylens so fond of mashing letters together, without proper vowels? Yalb waved for her. She moved to follow. Be careful with yourself, lass, the captain warned as she passed. Even a