I should have seen it. Look, Adolin said, just because you might have some problems doesnt mean you have to abdicate. Adolin, our enemies will use my weakness against us. In fact, you believe that they are already doing so. If I dont give up the princedom now, matters could grow much worse than they are now. But I dont want to be highprince, Adolin complained. Not yet, at least. Leadership is rarely about what we want, son. I think too few among the Alethi elite realize that fact. And what will happen to you? Adolin asked, pained. He stopped and looked toward his father. Dalinar was so firm , even sitting there, contemplating his own madness. Hands clasped before him, wearing a stiff blue uniform with a coat of Kholin blue, silver hair dusting his temples. Those hands of his were thick and callused, his expression determined. Dalinar made a decision and stuck to it, not wavering or debating. Mad or not, he was what Alethkar needed. And Adolin hadin his haste done what no warrior on the battlefield had ever been able to do: chop Dalinar Kholins legs out from under him and send him away in defeat. Oh, Stormfather, Adolin thought, stomach twisting in pain. Jezerezeh, Kelek, and Ishi, Heralds above. Let me find a way to right this. Please. I will return to Alethkar, Dalinar said. Though I hate to leave our army here down a Shardbearer. Could Ibut no, I could not give them up. Of course not! Adolin said, aghast. A Shardbearer, giving up his Shards? It almost never happened unless the Bearer was too weak and sickly to use them. Dalinar nodded. I have long worried that our homeland is in danger, now that every single Shardbearer fights out here on the Plains. Well, perhaps this change of winds is a blessing. I will return to Kholinar and aid the queen, make myself useful fighting against border incursions. Perhaps the Reshi and the Vedens will be less likely to strike against us if they know that theyd be facing a full Shardbearer. Thats possible, Adolin said. But they could also escalate and start sending a Shardbearer of their own on raids. That seemed to worry his father. Jah Keved was the only other kingdom in Roshar that owned a substantial number of Shards, nearly as many as Alethkar. There hadnt been a direct war between them in centuries. Alethkar had been too divided, and Jah Keved was little better. But if the two kingdoms clashed in force, it would be a war the like of which hadnt been seen since the days of the Hierocracy.