abandoned us. Just like the lighteyes are abandoning us right now. Maybe Kaladins right. Maybe there is no hope. Kaladin looked down. Those words haunted him. Maybe Kaladin is right maybe there is no hope. Hed done this before. Under his last own er, before being sold to Tvlakv and being made a bridgeman. Hed given up on a quiet night after leading Goshel and the other slaves in rebellion. Theyd been slaughtered. But somehow hed survived. Storm it all, why did he always survive? I cant do it again, he thought, squeezing his eyes shut. I cant help them. Tien. Tukks. Goshel. Dallet. The nameless slave hed tried to heal in Tvlakvs slave wagons. All had ended up the same. Kaladin had the touch of failure. Sometimes he gave them hope, but what was hope except another opportunity for failure? How many times could a man fall before he no longer stood back up? I just think were ignorant, Teft grumbled. I dont like listening to what the lighteyes say about the past. Their women write all the histories, you know. I cant believe youre arguing about this, Teft, Skar said, exasperated. What next? Should we let the Voidbringers steal our hearts? Maybe theyre just misunderstood. Or the Parshendi. Maybe we should just let them kill our king whenever they want. Would you two just storm off? Moash snapped. It doesnt matter. You heard Kaladin. Even he thinks were as good as dead. Kaladin couldnt take their voices anymore. He stumbled away, into the darkness, away from the torchlight. None of the men followed him. He entered a place of dark shadows, with only the distant ribbon of sky above for light. Here, Kaladin escaped their eyes. In the darkness he ran into a boulder, stumbling to a stop. It was slick with moss and lichen. He stood with his hands pressed against it, then groaned and turned around to lean back against it. Syl alighted in front of him, still visible, despite the darkness. She sat down in the air, arranging her dress around her legs. I cant save them, Syl, Kaladin whispered, anguished. Are you certain? Ive failed every time before. And so youll fail this time too? Yes. She fell silent. Well then, she eventually said. Lets say that youre right. So why fight? I told myself that I would try one last time. But I failed before I began. Theres no saving them.