I likely got a few of the words wrong. Knowing you, that means you might have forgotten a single an or the. Dalinar frowned. Oh, dont be so stiff, old friend, Sadeas said. That was a compliment. Of sorts. What did you think of the story? Dalinar asked as the dueling resumed. It was ridiculous, Sadeas said frankly, waving for a servant to bring him some wine. Yellow, as it was yet morning. He walked all that distance just to make the point that kings should consider the consequences of their commands? It wasnt just to prove the point, Dalinar said. I thought that myself, but Ive begun to see. He walked because he wanted to experience the things his people did. He used it as a metaphor, but I think he really wanted to know what it was like to walk that far. Sadeas took a sip of his wine, then squinted up at the sun. Couldnt we get an awning or something set up out here? I like the sun, Elhokar said. I spend too much time locked away in those caves we call buildings. Sadeas glanced at Dalinar, rolling his eyes. Much of The Way of Kings is organized like that passage I quoted you, Dalinar said. A metaphor from Nohadons lifea real event turned into an example. He calls them the forty parables. Are they all so ridiculous? I think this one is beautiful, Dalinar said softly. I dont doubt that you do. You always have loved sentimental stories. He raised a hand. That was also intended to be a compliment. Of sorts? Exactly. Dalinar, my friend, you always have been emotional. It makes you genuine. It can also get in the way of levelheaded thinkingbut so long as it continues to prompt you to save my life, I think I can live with it. He scratched his chin. I suppose, by definition, I would have to, wouldnt I? I guess. The other highprinces think you are self-righteous. Surely you can see why. I What could he say? I dont mean to be. Well, you do provoke them. Take, for example, the way you refuse to rise to their arguments or insults. Protesting simply draws attention to the issue, Dalinar said. The finest defense of character is correct action. Acquaint yourself with virtue, and you can