myself? Fair enough, Teft said. He finally got the breastplate strap undone. The other men are confused, son. They want to know what were going to do next. Kaladin sighed, then stood, turning to look at the bridgemen. I dont know what to do! If we try to protect ourselves, Sadeas will have us punished! Were bait, and were going to die. Theres nothing I can do about it! Its hopeless. The bridgemen regarded him with shock. Kaladin turned from them and went back to work, kneeling beside Teft. There, he said. I explained it to them. Idiot, Teft said under his breath. After all youve done, youre abandoning us now? To the side, the bridgemen turned back to work. Kaladin caught a few of them grumbling. Bastard, Moash said. I said this would happen. Abandoning you? Kaladin hissed to Teft. Just let me be. Let me go back to apathy. At least then theres no pain. Teft, Ive spent hours and hours trying to find a way out, but there isnt one! Sadeas wants us dead. Lighteyes get what they want; thats the way the world works. So? Kaladin ignored him, turning back to his work, pulling at the boot on a soldier whose fibula looked to have been shattered in three different places. That made it storming awkward to get the boot off. Well, maybe we will die, Teft said. But maybe this isnt about surviving. Why was Teft of all peopletrying to cheer him up? If survival isnt the point, Teft, then what is? Kaladin finally got the boot off. He turned to the next body in line, then froze. It was a bridgeman. Kaladin didnt recognize him, but that vest and those sandals were unmistakable. He lay slumped against the wall, arms at his sides, mouth slightly open and eyelids sunken. The skin on one of the hands had slipped free and pulled away. I dont know what the point is, Teft grumbled. But it seems pathetic to give up. We should keep fighting. Right until those arrows take us. You know, journey before destination. What does that mean? I dont know, Teft said, looking down quickly. Just something I heard once. Its something the Lost Radiants used to say, Sigzil said, walking past. Kaladin glanced to the side. The soft-spoken Azish man set a shield on a pile. He looked up, brown skin dark in the torchlight. It was their motto. Part of