He dragged Dabbid away from the edge in a clumsy half crawl. He kept slipping on blood, falling, abrading his arms on the rock, hitting his face against the stone. He persisted, towing the younger man out from underneath the flying arrows. Finally, he got far enough away that he risked standing. He tried to pick up Dabbid. But his muscles were so weak. He strained and slipped, exhausted, falling to the stones. He lay there, gasping, the pain of his side finally washing over him. So tired. He stood up shakily, then tried again to grab Dabbid. He blinked away tears of frustration, too weak to even pull the man. Airsick lowlander, a voice growled. Kaladin turned as Rock arrived. The massive Horneater grabbed Dabbid under the arms, pulling him. Crazy, he grumbled to Kaladin, but easily lifted the wounded bridgeman and carried him back to the hollow. Kaladin followed. He collapsed in the hollow, his back to the rock. The surviving bridgemen huddled around him, eyes haunted. Rock set Dabbid down. Four more, Kaladin said between gasps. We have to find them. Murk and Leyten, Teft said. The older bridgeman had been near the back this run, and hadnt taken any wounds. And Adis and Corl. They were in the front. Thats right, Kaladin thought, exhausted. How could I forget. Murk is dead, he said. The others might live. He tried to stumble to his feet. Idiot, Rock said. Stay here. Is all right. I will do this thing. He hesitated. Guess Im an idiot too. He scowled, but went back out onto the battlefield. Teft hesitated, then chased after him. Kaladin breathed in and out, holding his side. He couldnt decide if the pain of the arrow impact hurt more than the cut. Save lives. He crawled over to the three wounded. Hobberwith an arrow through the legwould wait, and Dabbid had only a broken arm. Gadol was the worst off, with that hole in his side. Kaladin stared at the wound. He didnt have an operating table; he didnt even have antiseptic. How was he supposed to do anything? He shoved despair aside. One of you go fetch me a knife, he told the bridgemen. Take it off the body of a soldier who has fallen. Someone else build a fire! The bridgemen looked at each other. Dunny, you get the knife, Kaladin said as he held his hand to Gadols wound, trying to stanch the blood. Narm, can you make a fire?