Something odd did happen with his armor. This whole mess stinks like cremslime. Perhaps it will turn out to be nothing. For now, humor me. I have to note, Navani said, that I didnt much care for Sadeas back when you, he, and Gavilar were friends. She finished her letter with a flourish. Hes not behind the attacks on the king, Dalinar said. How can you be certain? Navani asked. Because its not his way, Dalinar said. Sadeas never wanted the title of king. Being highprince gives him plenty of power, but leaves him with someone to take the blame for large-scale mistakes. Dalinar shook his head. He never tried to seize the throne from Gavilar, and hes even better positioned with Elhokar. Because my sons a weakling, Navani said. It wasnt an accusation. Hes not weak, Dalinar said, Hes inexperienced. But yes, that does make the situation ideal for Sadeas. Hes telling the truthhe asked to be Highprince of Information because he wants very badly to find out who is trying to kill Elhokar. Mashala, Renarin said, using the formal term for aunt. That fabrial on your shoulder, what does it do? Navani looked down at the device with a sly smile. Dalinar could see shed been hoping one of them would ask. Dalinar sat down; the highstorm would be coming soon. Oh, this? Its a type of painrial. Here, let me show you. She reached up with her safehand, pushing a clip that released the clawlike legs. She held it up. Do you have any aches, dear? A stubbed toe, perhaps, or a scrape? Renarin shook his head. I pulled a muscle in my hand during dueling practice earlier, Adolin said. Its not bad, but it does ache. Come over here, Navani said. Dalinar smiled fondlyNavani was always at her most genuine when playing with new fabrials. It was one of the few times when one got to see her without any pretense. This wasnt Navani the kings mother or Navani the political schemer. This was Navani the excited engineer. The artifabrian community is doing some amazing things, Navani said as Adolin proffered his hand. Im particularly proud of this little device, as I had a hand in its construction. She clipped it onto Adolins hand, wrapping the clawlike legs around the palm and locking them into place. Adolin raised his hand, turning it around. The pain is gone. But you can still feel, correct? Navani said in a self-satisfied way. Adolin prodded his palm with the fingers of his other hand. The hand isnt numb at all.