He kept staring, slumped. There was a way out. Bridgemen could visit the chasm nearest the camp. There were rules forbidding it, but the sentries ignored them. It was seen as the one mercy that could be given the bridgemen. Bridgemen who took that path never returned. Kaladin? Syl said, voice soft, worried. My father used to say that there are two kinds of people in the world, Kaladin whispered, voice raspy. He said there are those who take lives. And there are those who save lives. Syl frowned, cocking her head. This kind of conversation confused her; she wasnt good with abstractions. I used to think he was wrong. I thought there was a third group. People who killed in order to save. He shook his head. I was a fool. There is a third group, a big one, but it isnt what I thought. What group? she said, sitting down on his knee, brow scrunched up. The people who exist to be saved or to be killed. The group in the middle. The ones who cant do anything but die or be protected. The victims. Thats all I am. He looked up across the wet lumberyard. The carpenters had retreated, throwing tarps over untreated wood and bearing away tools that could rust. The bridgeman barracks ran around the west and north sides of the yard. Bridge Fours was set off a little from the others, as if bad luck were a disease that could be caught. Contagious by proximity, as Kaladins father would say. We exist to be killed, Kaladin said. He blinked, glancing at the other few members of Bridge Four sitting apathetically in the rain. If were not dead already. I hate seeing you like this, Syl said, buzzing about Kaladins head as his team of bridgemen dragged a log down into the lumberyard. The Parshendi often set fire to the outermost permanent bridges, so Highprince Sadeass engineers and carpenters were always busy. The old Kaladin might have wondered why the armies didnt work harder to defend the bridges. Theres something wrong here! a voice inside him said. Youre missing part of the puzzle. They waste resources and bridgeman lives. They dont seem to care about pushing inward and assaulting the Parshendi. They just fight pitched battles on plateaus, then come back to the camps and celebrate. Why? WHY?