behind me. Rock had the bridgemen lined up and waiting quietly, as if for inspection. Kaladin walked out to join them, Teft and Lopen following behind. The bearers set the palanquin down in front of Kaladin. Open-sided with only a small canopy on the top, it was little more than an armchair on a platform. Many of the lighteyed women used them in the warcamps. Kaladin reluctantly gave Hashal a proper bow, prompting the other bridgemen to do so as well. Now was not the time to be beaten for insubordination. You have such a well-trained band, bridgeleader, she said, idly scratching her cheek with a ruby-red nail, her elbow on her armrest. So efficient at bridge runs. Thank you, Brightness Hashal, Kaladin said, tryingbut failingto keep the stiff ness and hostility from his voice. May I ask? Gaz hasnt been seen for some days now. Is he well? No. Kaladin waited for further reply, but she didnt give one. My husband has made a decision. Your men are so good at bridge runs that you are a model to the other crews. As such, you will be on bridge duty every day from now on. Kaladin felt a chill. And scavenging duty? Oh, there will still be time for that. You need to take torches down anyway, and plateau runs never happen at night. So your men will sleep during the day always on calland will work the chasms at night. A much better use of your time. Every bridge run, Kaladin said. Youre going to make us go on every one . Yes, she said idly, tapping for her bearers to raise her. Your team is just too good. It must be used. Youll start full-time bridge duty tomorrow. Consider it an honor. Kaladin inhaled sharply to keep himself from saying what he thought of her honor. He couldnt bring himself to bow as she retreated, but she didnt seem to care. Rock and the men started muttering. Every bridge run. Shed just doubled the rate at which theyd be killed. Kaladins team wouldnt last another few weeks. They were already so low on members that losing one or two men on an assault would cause them to flounder. The Parshendi would focus on them then, cutting them down. Keleks breath! Teft said. Shell see us dead! Its not fair, Lopen added. Were bridgemen, Kaladin said, looking at them. What made you think