with the butt of his spear, putting momentum and muscle behind the blow. The spear haft shattered against the Shardbearers back leg in a spray of wooden slivers. The jolt of it knocked Kaladin to the ground, his arms shaking, the broken spear clutched in his hands. The Shardbearer stumbled, lowering his Blade. He turned a helmed face toward Kaladin, posture indicating utter surprise. The twenty remaining men of Kaladins squad arrived a heartbeat later, attacking vigorously. Kaladin scrambled to his feet and ran for the spear from a fallen soldier. He tossed his broken one away after snatching one of his knives from its sheath, snatched the new one off the ground, then turned back to see his men attacking as he had taught. They came at the foe from three directions, ramming spears between joints in the Plate. The Shardbearer glanced around, as a bemused man might regard a pack of puppies yapping around him. Not a single one of the spear thrusts appeared to pierce his armor. He shook a helmed head. Then he struck. The Shardblade swept out in a broad sweeping series of deadly strokes, cutting through ten of the spearmen. Kaladin was paralyzed in horror as Toorim, Acis, Hamel, and seven others fell to the ground, eyes burning, their armor and weapons sheared completely through. The remaining spearmen stumbled back, aghast. The Shardbearer attacked again, killing Raksha, Navar, and four others. Kaladin gaped. His menhis friendsdead, just like that. The last four scrambled away, Hab stumbling over Toorims corpse and falling to the ground, dropping his spear. The Shardbearer ignored them, stepping up to the pinned Amaram again. No, Kaladin thought. No, no, NO! Something drove him forward, against all logic, against all sense. Sickened, agonized, enraged . The hollow where they fought was empty save for them. Sensible spearmen had fled. His four remaining men achieved the ridge a short distance away, but didnt run. They called for him. Kaladin! Reesh yelled. Kaladin, no! Kaladin screamed instead. The Shardbearer saw him, and spunimpossibly quickswinging. Kaladin ducked under the blow and rammed the butt of his spear against the Shardbearers knee. It bounced off. Kaladin cursed, throwing himself backward just as the Blade sliced the air in front of him. Kaladin rebounded and lunged forward. He made an expert thrust at his enemys neck. The neck brace rebuffed the attack. Kaladins spear barely scratched the Plates paint.