forty-foot-high formation. He groped with steel-covered fingers, finding another handhold. The gauntlets covered his hands, but the ancient armor somehow transferred sensation to his fingers. It was as if he were wearing thin leather gloves. A scraping sound came from the right, accompanied by a voice cursing softly. Elhokar had taken a different path, hoping to pass Dalinar, but the king had found himself at a section without handholds above. His progress was stalled. The kings golden Shardplate glittered as he glanced at Dalinar. Elhokar set his jaw and looked upward, then launched himself in a powerful leap toward an outcropping. Fool boy, Dalinar thought, watching the king seem to hang in the air for a moment before he snatched the projecting rock and dangled. Then the king pulled himself up and continued to climb. Dalinar moved furiously, stone grinding beneath his metal fingertips, chips falling free. The wind ruffled his cape. He heaved, strained, and pushed himself, managing to get just ahead of the king. The top was mere feet away. The Thrill sang at him. He reached for the goal, determined to win. He couldnt lose. He had to Unite them. He hesitated, not quite certain why, and let his nephew get ahead. Elhokar hauled himself to his feet atop the rock formation, then laughed in triumph. He turned toward Dalinar, holding out a hand. Stormwinds, Uncle, but you made a fine race of it! At the end there, I thought for sure you had me. The triumph and joy in Elhokars face brought a smile to Dalinars lips. The younger man needed victories these days. Even little ones would do him good. Glorysprenlike tiny golden translucent globes of lightbegan to pop into existence around him, attracted by his sense of accomplishment. Blessing himself for hesitating, Dalinar took the kings hand, letting Elhokar pull him up. There was just enough room on top of the natural tower for them both. Breathing deeply, Dalinar slapped the king on the back with a clank of metal on metal. That was a fine contest, Your Majesty. And you played it very well. The king beamed. His golden Shardplate gleamed in the noonday sun; he had his faceplate up, revealing light yellow eyes, a strong nose, and a clean- shaven face that was almost too handsome, with its full lips, broad forehead, and firm chin. Gavilar had looked like that too, before hed suffered a broken nose and that terrible scar on his chin. Below them, the Cobalt Guard and some of Elhokars attendants rode up, including Sadeas. His Plate gleamed red, though he wasnt a full Shardbearer