My people have no Shardblades, Rock said in his low, rumbling voice. Thats not unusual, Kaladin said. Other than Alethkar and Jah Keved, few kingdoms have many Blades. It was a matter of some pride among the armies. This thing is not true, Rock said. Thaylenah has five Blades and three full suits of Plate, all held by the royal guards. The Selay have their share of both suits and Blades. Other kingdoms, such as Herdaz, have a single Blade and set of Platethis is passed down through the royal line. But the Unkalaki, we have not a single Shard. Many of our nuatoma this thing, it is the same as your lighteyes, only their eyes are not light How can you be a lighteyes without light eyes? Teft said with a scowl. By having dark eyes, Rock said, as if it were obvious. We do not pick our leaders this way. Is complicated. But do not interrupt story. He milked another reed, tossing the husk into a pile beside him. The nuatoma , they see our lack of Shards as great shame. They want these weapons very badly. It is believed that the nuatoma who first obtains a Shardblade would become king, a thing we have not had for many years. No peak would fight another peak where a man held one of the blessed Blades. So you came to buy one? Kaladin asked. No Shardbearer would sell his weapon. Each was a distinctive relic, taken from one of the Lost Radiants after their betrayal. Rock laughed. Ha! Buy? No, we are not so foolish as this. But my nuatoma , he knew of your tradition, eh? It says that if a man kills a Shardbearer, he may take the Blade and Plate as his own. And so my nuatoma and his house, we made a grand procession, coming down to find and kill one of your Shardbearers. Kaladin almost laughed. I assume it proved more difficult than that. My nuatoma was not a fool, Rock said, defensive. He knew this thing would be difficult, but your tradition, it gives us hope, you see? Occasionally, a brave nuatoma will come down to duel a Shardbearer. Someday, one will win, and we will have Shards. Perhaps, Kaladin said, tossing an empty reed into the chasm. Assuming they agree to duel you in a bout to the death. Oh, they always duel, Rock said, laughing. The nuatoma brings many riches and promises all of his possessions to the victor. Your lighteyes, they cannot pass by a pond so warm! To kill an Unkalaki with no Shardblade, they do not see this thing as difficult. Many nuatoma have died. But is all right. Eventually, we will win. And have one set of Shards, Kaladin said. Alethkar has dozens.