to the rain. It was cold, though not as piercingly so as during the height of the storm. It sprayed across Kaladin and the huddled slaves. Tvlakv always ordered the wagons uncovered before the rain stopped; he said it was the only way to wash away the slaves stink. Bluth slid the wooden side into place beneath the wagon, then opened the other two sides. Only the wall at the front of the wagonjust behind the drivers seatcouldnt be brought down. Little early to be taking down the sides, Bluth, Kaladin said. It wasnt quite the riddens yetthe period near the end of a highstorm when the rain sprinkled softly. This rain was still heavy, the wind still gusting on occasion. The master wants you plenty clean today. Why? Kaladin asked, rising, water streaming from his ragged brown clothing. Bluth ignored him. Perhaps were nearing our destination , Kaladin thought as he scanned the landscape. Over the last few days, the hills had given way to uneven rock formations places where weathering winds had left behind crumbling cliffs and jagged shapes. Grass grew up the rocky sides that saw the most sun, and other plants were plentiful in the shade. The time right after a highstorm was when the land was most alive. Rockbud polyps split and sent out their vines. Other kinds of vine crept from crevices, licking up water. Leaves unfolded from shrubs and trees. Cremlings of all kinds slithered through puddles, enjoying the banquet. Insects buzzed into the air; larger crustaceanscrabs and leggersleft their hiding places. The very rocks seemed to come to life. Kaladin noted a half-dozen windspren flitting overhead, their translucent forms chasing afteror perhaps cruising along withthe highstorms last gusts. Tiny lights rose around the plants. Lifespren. They looked like motes of glowing green dust or swarms of tiny translucent insects. A leggerits hairlike spines lifted to the air to give warning of changes in the windclimbed along the side of the cart, its long body lined with dozens of pairs of legs. That was familiar enough, but hed never seen a legger with such a deep purple carapace. Where was Tvlakv taking the caravan? Those uncultivated hillsides were perfect for farming. You could spread stumpweight sap on them mixed with lavis seedsduring seasons of weaker storms following the Weeping. In four months, youd have polyps larger than a mans head growing all along the hill, ready to break open for the grain inside. The chulls lumbered about, feasting on rockbuds, slugs, and smaller crustaceans that had appeared after the storm. Tag and Bluth quietly hitched the beasts to their harnesses as a grumpy-looking Tvlakv crawled out of his