Were Bridge Four, Kaladin said firmly. Weve faced death together. We have to trust each other. You cant run into battle wondering if your companions are going to switch sides suddenly. He met the eyes of each man in turn. I trust you. All of you. Well make it through this, and well do it together. There were several nods; Skar seemed placated. Rock finished his work cutting the arrow, then proceeded to tie the pouch tightly around the shaft. Syl still sat on Kaladins shoulder. You want me to watch the others? Make sure nobody does what Skar thinks they might? Kaladin hesitated, then nodded. Best to be safe. He just didnt want the men to have to think that way. Rock hefted the arrow, judging the weight. Near impossible shot, he complained. Then, in a smooth motion, he nocked the arrow and drew to his cheek, positioning himself directly beneath the bridge. The small pouch hung down, dangling against the wood of the arrow. The bridgemen held their breath. Rock loosed. The arrow streaked up the side of the chasm wall, almost too fast to follow. A faint click sounded as arrow met wood, and Kaladin held his breath, but the arrow did not pull free. It remained hanging there, precious spheres tied to its shaft, right next to the side of the bridge where it could be reached. Kaladin clapped Rock on the shoulder as the bridgemen cheered him. Rock eyed Kaladin. I will not use bow to fight. You must know this thing. I promise, Kaladin said. Ill take you if you agree, but I wont force you. I will not fight, Rock said. Is not my place. He glanced up at the spheres, then smiled faintly. But shooting bridge is all right. How did you learn? Kaladin asked. Is secret, Rock said firmly. Take bow. Bother me no more. All right, Kaladin said, accepting the bow. But I dont know if I can promise not to bother you. I may need a few more shots in the future. He eyed Lopen. You really think you can buy some rope without drawing attention? Lopen lounged back against the wall. My cousins never failed me. How many cousins do you have, anyway? Earless Jaks asked. A man can never have enough cousins, Lopen said. Well, we need that rope, Kaladin said, the plan beginning to sprout in his mind. Do it, Lopen. Ill make change from those spheres above to pay for it.