Here, love, Ashir said, walking over, then knelt beside her and offered a small bowl. Give this a try. I think youll like it. She eyed the contents. Bits of bread covered with a red sauce. It was mens food, but they were both ardents, so that didnt matter. From outside came the sounds of waves gently lapping against the rocks. They were on a tiny Reshi island, technically sent to provide for the religious needs of any Vorin visitors. Some travelers did come to them for that, occasionally even some of the Reshi. But really, this was a way of getting away and focusing on their experiments. Geranid with her spren studies. Ashir with his chemistrythrough cooking, of course, as it allowed him to eat the results. The portly man smiled affably, head shaven, grey beard neatly squared off. They both kept to the rules of their stations, despite their seclusion. One did not write the ending of a lifetime of faith with a sloppy last chapter. No green, she noted, taking the bowl. Thats a good sign. Hmmm, he said, leaning down and adjusting his spectacles to inspect her notations. Yes. It really was fascinating the way that Shin vegetable caramelized. Im so pleased that Gom brought it to me. Youll have to go over my notes. I think I got the figures right, but I could be wrong. He wasnt as strong at mathematics as he was at theory. Conveniently, Geranid was just the opposite. She took a spoon and tried the food. She didnt wear a sleeve on her safehandanother one of the advantages of being an ardent. The food was actually quite good. Did you try this, Ashir? Nope, he said, still looking over her figures. Youre the brave one, my dear. She sniffed. Its terrible. I can see that from how youre taking another large bite at this moment. Yes, but youd hate it. No fruit. Is this fish you added? A dried handful of the little minnows I caught outside this morning. Still dont know what species they are. Tasty, though. He hesitated, then looked up at the hearth and its spren. Geranid, what is this? I think Ive had a breakthrough, she said softly. But the figures, he said, tapping the writing board. You said they were erratic, and they still are. Yes, she said, narrowing her eyes at the flamespren. But I can predict when they will be erratic and when they wont be. He looked at her, frowning. The spren change when I measure them, Ashir, she said. Before I measure, they dance and vary in size, luminosity, and shape. But when I make a