So, youre saying you can just die, and it would be all right? No, he said. What Im saying is that I faced eternity, and I saw peace there. That will change how I live. Without all of the guilt? He hesitated. Being me, I doubt Ill banish it entirely. The end was peace, but living that is a tempest. Still, I see things differently now. It is time to stop letting myself be shoved around by lying men. He looked up, toward the ridge above, where more soldiers in green were gathering. I keep thinking of one of the visions, he said softly, the latest one, where I met Nohadon. He rejected my suggestion that he write down his wisdom. Theres something there. Something I need to learn. What? Navani asked. I dont know yet. But Im close to figuring it out. He held her close again, hand on the back of her head, feeling her hair. He wished for the Plate to be gone, to not be separated from her by the metal. But the time for that had not yet come. Reluctantly, he released her, turning to the side, where Renarin and Adolin were watching them uncomfortably. His soldiers were looking up at Sadeass army, gathering on the ridge. I cant let this come to bloodshed, Dalinar thought, reaching down and putting his hand into the fallen gauntlet. The straps tightened, connecting to the rest of the armor. But Im also not going to slink back to my camp without confronting him. He at least had to know the purpose of the betrayal. All had been going so well. Besides, there was the matter of his promise to the bridgemen. Dalinar walked up the slope, bloodstained blue cloak flapping behind him. Adolin clanked up next to him on one side, Navani keeping pace on the other. Renarin followed, Dalinars remaining sixteen hundred troops marching up as well. Father Adolin said, looking at the hostile troops. Dont summon your Blade. This will not come to blows. Sadeas abandoned you, didnt he? Navani asked quietly, eyes alight with anger. He didnt just abandon us, Adolin spat. He set us up, then betrayed us. We survived, Dalinar said firmly. The way ahead was becoming clearer. He knew what he needed to do. He wont attack us here, but he might try to provoke us. Keep your sword as mist, Adolin, and dont let our troops make any mistakes. The soldiers in green parted reluctantly, holding spears. Hostile. To the side, Kaladin and his bridgemen walked near the front of Dalinars force. Adolin didnt summon his Blade, though he regarded Sadeass troops around