perpetual ailment. Namely, that of being dead . For three hundred years. Shallan blushed. My father had a book of his instruction. You learned this, Kabsal said, lifting up her drawing of Jasnah, from a book . Eryes? He looked back at the picture. I need to read more. Shallan found herself laughing at the ardents expression, and she took a Memory of him sitting there, admiration and perplexity blending on his face as he studied the picture, rubbing his bearded chin with one finger. He smiled pleasantly, setting down the picture. You have lacquer? I do, she said, getting it out of her satchel. It was contained in a bulb sprayer of the type often used for perfume. He accepted the small jar and twisted the clasp on the front, then gave the bottle a shake and tested the lacquer on the back of his hand. He nodded in satisfaction and reached for the drawing. A piece such as this should not be allowed to risk smudging. I can lacquer it, Shallan said. No need to trouble yourself. It is no trouble; its an honor. Besides, I am an ardent. We dont know what to do with ourselves when we arent busying about, doing things others could do for themselves. It is best just to humor me. He began to apply the lacquer, dusting the page with careful puffs. She had trouble keeping herself from reaching to snatch the sketch away. Fortunately, his hands were careful, and the lacquer went on evenly. Hed obviously done this before. You are from Jah Keved, I presume? he asked. From the hair? she asked, raising a hand to her red locks. Or from the accent? From the way you treat ardents. The Veden Church is by far the most traditional. I have visited your lovely country on two occasions; while your food sits well in my stomach, the amount of bowing and scraping you show ardents made me uncomfortable. Perhaps you should have danced on a few tables. I considered it, he said, but my brother and sister ardents from your country would likely have dropped dead of embarrassment. I would hate to have that on my conscience. The Almighty is not kind toward those who kill his priests. I should think that killing in general would be frowned upon, she responded, still watching him apply the lacquer. It felt odd to let someone else work on her art.