Cant you let yourself bend, just a little? Im not certain if I can. Particularly not now. Explaining why would be difficult. Could you try to? For me? I Well, Im a man of extremes, Navani. I discovered that when I was a youth. Ive learned, repeatedly, that the only way to control those extremes is to dedicate my life to something. First it was Gavilar. Now its the Codes and the teachings of Nohadon. Theyre the means by which I bind myself. Like the enclosure of a fire, meant to contain and control it. He took a deep breath. Im a weak man, Navani. I really am. If I give myself a few feet of leeway, I burst through all of my prohibitions. The momentum of following the Codes these years after Gavilars death is what keeps me strong. If I let a few cracks into that armor, I might return to the man I once was. A man I never want to be again. A man who had contemplated murdering his own brother for the throne and for the woman who had married that brother. But he couldnt explain that, didnt dare let Navani know what his desire for her had once almost driven him to do. On that day, Dalinar had sworn that he would never hold the throne himself. That was one of his restraints. Could he explain how she, without trying, pried at those restraints? How it was difficult to reconcile his long-fermenting love for her with his guilt at finally taking for himself what hed long ago given up for his brother? You are not a weak man, Dalinar, Navani said. I am. But weakness can imitate strength if bound properly, just as cowardice can imitate heroism if given nowhere to flee. But theres nothing in Gavilars book that prohibits us. Its just tradition that It feels wrong, Dalinar said. But please, dont worry; I do enough worrying for both of us. I will find a way to make this work; I just ask your understanding. It will take time. When I display frustration, it is not with you, but with the situation. I suppose I can accept that. Assuming you can live with the rumors. Theyre starting already. They wont be the first rumors to plague me, he said. Im starting to worry less about them and more about Elhokar. How will we explain to him? I doubt hell notice, Navani said, snorting softly, resuming her walk. He followed. Hes so fixated on the Parshendi and, occasionally, the idea that someone in camp is trying to kill him.