My lord, the scout said, our orders were to return as soon as we identified them. Well, go back and find out why theyre here! the officer bellowed, causing the scout to flinch, then turn to ride away. The Radiants. They were usually connected to Dalinars visions in one way or another. As the officer began to call commands to his attendants, telling them to prep empty bunkers for the knights, Dalinar followed the scout toward the wall. Men crowded near the kill slits there, peering out at the plain. Like those above, these wore motley uniforms that looked pieced together. They werent a ragged bunch, but were obviously wearing secondhand leavings. The scout rode through a sally port as Dalinar entered the shadow of the enormous wall, walking up to the back of a crowd of soldiers. What is it? he asked. The Radiants, one of the men said. Theyve broken into a run. Its almost like theyre going to attack, said another. He chuckled at how ridiculous that sounded, though there was an edge of uncertainty to his voice. What? Dalinar thought, anxious. Let me through. Surprisingly, the men parted. As Dalinar pushed by, he could sense their confusion. Hed given the command with the authority of a highprince and a lighteyes, and theyd obeyed instinctively. Now that they saw him, they were uncertain. What was this simple guardsman doing ordering them about? He didnt give them a chance to question him. He climbed onto the platform against the wall, where a rectangular kill slit looked through the wall and onto the plain. It was too small for a man to get through, but wide enough for archers to fire out. Through it, Dalinar saw that the approaching soldiers had formed a distinct line. Men and women in gleaming Shardplate charged forward. The scout pulled to a halt, looking at the charging Shardbearers. They ran shoulder to shoulder, not a single one of place. Like a crystalline wave. As they drew closer, Dalinar could see that their Plate was unpainted, but it glowed either blue or amber at the joints and across glyphs at the front, as with other Radiants hed seen in his visions. They dont have their Shardblades out, Dalinar said. Thats a good sign. The scout outside backed his horse up. There looked to be a good two hundred Shardbearers out there. Alethkar owned some twenty Blades, Jah Keved a similar number. If one added up all the rest in the world, there might be enough total to equal the two powerful Vorin kingdoms. That meant, so far as he knew, there were less than hundred Blades in all of the world. And here he saw two hundred Shardbearers gathered in one army. It was mind-numbing. The Radiants slowed, falling into a trot, then a walk. The soldiers around