could remember it now. Who are you? Dalinar demanded. Why are you showing me these visions? You can see it there, the figure said, pointing. If you look closely. It begins in the distance. Dalinar glanced in that direction, annoyed. He couldnt make out anything specific. Storm it, Dalinar said. Wont you answer my questions for once? What is the good of all of this if you just speak in riddles? The man didnt answer. He just kept pointing. And yes, something was happening. There was a shadow in the air, approaching. A wall of darkness. Like a highstorm, only wrong . At least tell me this, Dalinar said. What time are we seeing? Is this the past, the future, or something else entirely? The figure didnt answer immediately. Then he said, Youre probably wondering if this is a vision of the future. Dalinar started. I just I just asked This was familiar. Too familiar. He said that exact thing last time, Dalinar realized, feeling a chill. This all happened. Im seeing the same vision again. The figure squinted at the horizon. I cannot see the future completely. Cultivation, she is better at it than I. Its as if the future is a shattering window. The further you look, the more pieces that window breaks into. The near future can be anticipated, but the distant future I can only guess. You cant hear me, can you? Dalinar asked, feeling a horror as he finally began to understand. You never could. Blood of my fathers hes not ignoring me. He cant see me! He doesnt speak in riddles. It just seems that way because I took his responses as cryptic answers to my questions. He didnt tell me to trust Sadeas. I I just assumed Everything seemed to shake around Dalinar. His preconceptions, what hed thought hed known. The ground itself. That is what could happen, the figure said, nodding into the distance. Its what I fear will happen. Its what he wants. The True Desolation. No, that wall in the air wasnt a highstorm. It wasnt rain making that enormous shadow, but blowing dust. He remembered this vision in full, now. It had ended here, with him confused, staring out at that oncoming wall of dust. This time, however, the vision continued. The figure turned to him. I am sorry to do this to you. By now I hope that what youve seen has given you a foundation to understand. But I cant know for certain. I dont know who you are, or how you have found your way here.