Has a spren. And if you slice it up? Each bit has a spren. Only smaller. Kal frowned, looking over the long tuber. They grew in cracks in the stone where water collected. They tasted faintly of minerals, but were easy to grow. His family needed food that didnt cost much, these days. So we eat spren, Kal said flatly. No, she said, we eat the roots. When we have to, Tien added with a grimace. And the spren? Kal pressed. They are freed. To return to wherever it is that spren live. Do I have a spren? Tien said, looking down at his chest. You have a soul, dear. Youre a person. But the pieces of your body may very well have spren living in them. Very small ones. Tien pinched at his skin, as if trying to pry the tiny spren out. Dung, Kal said suddenly. Kal! Hesina snapped. Thats not talk for mealtime. Dung, Kal said stubbornly. It has spren? I suppose it does. Dungspren, Tien said, then snickered. His mother continued to chop. Why all of these questions, suddenly? Kal shrugged. I justI dont know. Because. Hed been thinking recently about the way the world worked, about what he was to do with his place in it. The other boys his age, they didnt wonder about their place. Most knew what their future held. Working in the fields. Kal had a choice, though. Over the last several months, hed finally made that choice. He would become a soldier. He was fifteen now, and could volunteer when the next recruiter came through town. He planned to do just that. No more wavering. He would learn to fight. That was the end of it. Wasnt it? I want to understand, he said. I just want everything to make sense. His mother smiled at that, standing in her brown work dress, hair pulled back in a tail, the top hidden beneath her yellow kerchief. What? he demanded. Why are you smiling? You just want everything to make sense? Yes. Well next time the ardents come through the town to burn prayers and Elevate peoples Callings, Ill pass the message along. She smiled. Until then, keep peeling roots. Kal sighed, but did as she told him. He checked out the window again, and