Were using hog carcasses, Bashin explained. And we poured hogs blood over the sides. The chasmfiend has been spotted by patrols here a good dozen times. Hes got his nest nearby, for certainhes not here to pupate. Hes too big for that, and hes remained in the area too long. So it should be a fine hunt! Once he arrives, well loose a group of wild hogs as distractions, and you can begin weakening him with arrows. They had brought grandbows: large steel bows with thick strings and such a high draw weight that only a Shardbearer could use them, to fire shafts as thick as three fingers. They were recent creations, devised by Alethi engineers through the use of fabrial science, and each required a small infused gemstone to maintain the strength of its pull without warping the metal. Adolins aunt Navani the widow of King Gavilar, mother of Elhokar and his sister Jasnahhad led the research to develop the bows. It would be nice if she hadnt left, Adolin thought idly. Navani was an interesting woman. Things were never boring around her. Some had started calling the bows Shardbows, but Adolin didnt like the term. Shardblades and Shardplate were something special. Relics from another time, a time when the Radiants had walked Roshar. No amount of fabrial science had even approached re-creating them. Bashin led the king and his highprinces toward a pavilion at the center of the viewing plateau. Adolin joined his father, intending to give a report on the crossing. About half of the soldiers were in place, but many of the attendants were still making their way across the large, permanent bridge onto the viewing plateau. The kings banner flapped above the pavilion, and a small refreshment station had been erected. A soldier at the back was setting up the rack of four grandbows. They were sleek and dangerous-looking, with thick black shafts in four quivers beside them. I think youll have a fine day for the hunt, Bashin said to Dalinar. Judging by reports, the beast is a big one. Larger than youve ever slain before, Brightlord. Gavilar always wanted to slay one of these, Dalinar said wistfully. He loved greatshell hunts, though he never got a chasmfiend. Odd that Ive now killed so many. The chull pulling the bait bleated in the distance. You need to go for the legs on this one, Brightlords, Bashin said. Pre-hunt advice was one of Bashins responsibilities, and he took those seriously. Chasmfiends, well, youre used to attacking them in their chrysalises. Dont forget how mean they are when theyre not pupating. With one this big, use a distraction and come in from He trailed off, then groaned, cursing softly.