He swept away, forest-green cloak fluttering. In his time as a soldier, Gaz had learned to fear the minor lighteyes the most. They were galled by their closeness in rank to the darkeyes, yet those darkeyes were the only ones they had any authority over. That made them dangerous. Being around a man like Lamaril was like handling a hot coal with bare fingers. There was no way to avoid burning yourself. You just hoped to be quick enough to keep the burns to a minimum. Bridge Four ran by. A month ago, Gaz wouldnt have believed this possible. A group of bridgemen, practicing ? And all it seemed to have cost Kaladin was a few bribes of food and some empty promises that he would protect them. That shouldnt have been enough. Life as a bridgeman was hopeless. Gaz couldnt join them. He just couldnt. Kaladin the lordling had to fall. But if Kaladins spheres vanished, Gaz could just as easily end up as a bridgeman for failing to pay Lamaril. Storming Damnation! he thought. It was like trying to choose which claw of the chasmfiend would crush you. Gaz continued to watch Kaladins crew. And still that darkness waited for him. Like an itch that couldnt be scratched. Like a scream that couldnt be silenced. A tingling numbness that he could never be rid of. It would probably follow him even into death. Bridge up! Kaladin bellowed, running with Bridge Four. They raised the bridge over their heads while still moving. It was harder to run this way, holding the bridge up, rather than resting it on the shoulders. He felt its enormous weight on his arms. Down! he ordered. Those at the front let go of the bridge and ran out to the sides. The others lowered the bridge in a quick motion. It hit the ground awkwardly, scraping the stone. They got into position, pretending to move it across a chasm. Kaladin helped at the side. Well need to practice on a real chasm, he thought as the men finished. I wonder what kind of bribe it would take for Gaz to let me do that. The bridgemen, finished with their mock bridge run, looked toward Kaladin, exhausted but excited. He smiled at them. As a squadleader those months in Amarams army, hed learned that praise should be honest, but it should never be withheld. We need to work on that set-down, Kaladin said. But overall, Im