recently. What does that have to do with anything? Kaladin demanded. What was that heat inside of him, that burning in his veins? Gancho, Lopen said, his voice awed. Youre glowing. Kaladin frowned. What is he And then he noticed it. It was very faint, but it was there, wisps of luminescent smoke curling up from his skin. Like steam coming off a bowl of hot water on a cold winter night. Shaking, Kaladin put the medical pack on the broad rim of the water barrel. He felt a moment of coldness on his skin. What was that? Shocked, he raised his other hand, looking at the wisps streaming off of it. What did you do to me? he demanded, looking up at Teft. The older bridgeman was still smiling. Answer me! Kaladin said, stepping forward, grabbing the front of Tefts shirt. Stormfather, but I feel strong! I didnt do anything, lad, Teft said. Youve been doing this for a while now. I caught you feeding off Stormlight when you were sick. Stormlight. Kaladin hastily released Teft, fishing at the pouch of spheres in his pocket. He yanked it free and pulled it open. It was dark inside. All five gemstones had been drained. The white light streaming from Kaladins skin faintly illuminated the inside of the bag. Now thats something, Lopen said from the side. Kaladin spun to find the Herdazian man bending down and looking at the medical pack. Why was that so important? Then Kaladin saw it. He thought hed set the pack on the rim of the barrel, but in his haste hed just pressed it against the side of the barrel. The pack now clung to the wood. Stuck there, hanging as if from an invisible hook. Faintly streaming light, just like Kaladin. As Kaladin watched, the light faded, and the pack slumped free and fell to the ground. Kaladin raised a hand to his forehead, looking from the surprised Lopen to the curious Teft. Then he glanced around the lumberyard, frantic. Nobody else was looking at them; in the sunlight, the vapors were too faint to see from a distance. Stormfatherwhathow He caught sight of a familiar shape above. Syl moved like a blown leaf, tossed this way and that, leisurely, faint. She did it! Kaladin thought. What has she done to me? He stumbled away from Lopen and Teft, running toward Syl. His footsteps propelling him forward with too much speed. Syl! he bellowed, stopping