bridgemen. Kaladin tossed the bit of soap to Bisig, a thin bridgeman with an angular face. He took it gratefullyBisig didnt say muchand began to lather up as Kaladin let the rain wash the soap from his body and hair. To the side, Rock was using a bowl of water to shave and trim his Horneater beard, long on the sides and covering the cheeks, but clean below the lips and chin. It made an odd counterpoint to his head, which he shaved up the center, from directly above the eyebrows back. He trimmed the rest of his hair short. Rocks hand was smooth and careful, and he didnt so much as nick himself. Once finished, he stood up and waved to the men waiting behind him. One by one, he shaved any who wanted it. He occasionally paused to sharpen the razor using his whetstone and leather strop. Kaladin raised his fingers to his own beard. He hadnt been clean-shaven since hed been in Amarams army, so long ago. He walked forward to join those waiting in line. When Kaladins time came, the large Horneater laughed. Sit, my friend, sit! Is good you have come. Your face is more like scragglebark branches than a proper beard. Shave it clean, Kaladin said, sitting down on the stump. And Id rather not have a strange pattern like yours. Ha! Rock said, sharpening his razor. You are a lowlander, my good friend. Is not right for you to wear a humakaaban . I would have to thump you soundly if you tried this thing. I thought you said fighting was beneath you. Is allowed several important exceptions, Rock said. Now stop with your talking, unless you wish to be losing a lip. Rock began by trimming the beard down, then lathered and shaved, starting at the left cheek. Kaladin had never let another shave him before; when hed first gone to war, hed been young enough that hed barely needed to shave at all. Hed grown into doing it himself as he got older. Rocks touch was deft, and Kaladin didnt feel any nicks or cuts. In a few minutes, Rock stood back. Kaladin raised his fingers to his chin, touching smooth, sensitive skin. His face felt cold, strange to the touch. It took him back, transformed himjust a littleinto the man he had been. Strange, how much difference a shave could make. I should have done this weeks ago. The riddens had turned to drizzle, heralding the storms last whispers. Kaladin stood up, letting the water wash bits of shorn hair from his chest. Baby- faced Dunnythe last of those waitingsat down for his turn at being shaven. He hardly needed it at all.