Kaladin scrambled to grab one off a fallen soldier nearby. As he was working, the squadleader swore behind him. Damnation. Theyre coming again. Two prongs this time. We cant hold like this. A man in a green messengers vest scrambled over a nearby rock formation. Hold against the east assault, Mesh! What about that wave to the south? the squadleaderMeshbellowed. Its handled for now. Hold east! Those are your orders! The messenger scrambled on, delivering a similar message to the next squad in line. Varth. Your squad is to hold east! Kaladin got up with his shield. He needed to go find Tien. He couldnt He stumbled to a stop. There, in the next squad down the line, stood three figures. Younger boys, looking small in their armor and holding their spears uncertainly. One was Tien. His team of reserves had obviously been split apart to fill holes in other squads. Tien! Kaladin screamed, falling out of line as the enemy troops came upon them. Why were Tien and the other two positioned in the middle front of the squad formation? They barely knew how to hold a spear! Mesh yelled after Kaladin, but Kaladin ignored him. The enemy was upon them in a moment, and Meshs squad broke, losing their discipline and turning to a more frenzied, unorganized resistance. Kaladin felt something like a thump against his leg. He stumbled, hitting the ground, and realized with shock that hed been stabbed with a spear. He felt no pain. Odd. Tien! he thought, forcing himself up. Someone loomed above him, and Kaladin reacted immediately, rolling as a spear came down for his heart. His own spear was back in his hands before he realized hed grabbed it, and he whipped it upward. Then he froze. Hed just driven his spear through the enemy soldiers neck. It had happened so quickly. I just killed a man. He rolled over, letting the enemy drop to his knees as Kaladin yanked his spear free. Varths squad was back a little farther. The enemy hit it a little while after attacking where Kaladin had been. Tien and the other two were still in the front. Tien! Kaladin yelled. The boy looked toward him, eyes opening wide. He actually smiled. Behind him, the rest of the squad pulled back. Leaving the three untrained boys exposed. And, sensing weakness, the enemy soldiers descended on Tien and the others. There was an armored lighteyes at their front, in gleaming steel. He swung a sword.