duty, you usually only worked a few hours of the shift and could spend the rest lounging. Gaz stood with Kaladin in the early afternoon sunlight. You see, Gaz said, you got me thinking the other day. Nobody cares if Bridge Four is given unfair work details. Everyone hates chasm duty. I figured you wouldnt care. How much did they pay you? Kaladin asked, stepping forward. Storm off, Gaz said, spitting again. The others resent you. Itll do your crew good to be seen paying for what you did. Surviving? Gaz shrugged. Everyone knows you broke the rules in bringing back those men. If the others do what you did, wed have each barrack filled with the dying before the leeward side of a month was over! Theyre people , Gaz. If we dont fill the barracks with wounded, its because were leaving them out there to die. Theyll die here anyway. Well see. Gaz watched him, eyes narrow. It seemed like he suspected that Kaladin had somehow tricked him in taking the stone-gathering duty. Earlier, Gaz had apparently gone down to the chasm, probably trying to figure out what Kaladin and the other two had been doing. Damnation, Kaladin thought. Hed thought he had Gaz cowed enough to stay in line. Well go, Kaladin snapped, turning away. But Im not taking the blame among my men for this one. Theyll know you did it. Fine, Gaz called after him. Then, to himself, he continued, Maybe Ill get lucky and a chasmfiend will eat the lot of you. Chasm duty. Most bridgemen would rather spend all day hauling stones than get assigned to the chasms. With an unlit oil-soaked torch tied to his back, Kaladin climbed down the precarious rope ladder. The chasm was shallow here, only about fifty feet down, but that was enough to take him into a different world. A world where the only natural light came from the rift high in the sky. A world that stayed damp on even the hottest days, a drowned landscape of moss, fungus, and hardy plants that survived in even dim light. The chasms were wider at the bottom, perhaps a result of highstorms. They caused enormous floods to crash through the chasms; to be caught in a chasm