Kaladin blinked at the torrent of words. Did the man ever stop to breathe? Bridge Four was taking their break, their massive bridge resting on one side and giving shade. The five wounded had joined them and were chatting; even Leyten was up, which was encouraging. Hed been having a lot of trouble walking, what with that crushed leg. Kaladin had done what he could, but the man would always have a limp. The only one who didnt talk to the others was Dabbid, the man who had been so profoundly shocked by battle. He followed the others, but he didnt talk. Kaladin was starting to fear that the man would never recover from his mind fatigue. Hobberthe round-faced, gap-toothed man who had taken an arrow to the legwas walking without a crutch. It wouldnt be long before he could start running bridges again, and a good thing, too. They needed every pair of hands they could get. Head to the barrack there, Kaladin said to Lopen. Theres a blanket, sandals, and vest for you in the pile at the very back. Sure, Lopen said, sauntering off. He waved at a few of the men as he passed. Rock walked up to Kaladin, folding his arms. Is new member? Yes, Kaladin said. The only kind Gaz would give us, I assume. Rock sighed. This thing, we should have expected it. He will give us only the very most useless of bridgemen from now on. Kaladin was tempted to say something in the way of agreement, but hesitated. Syl would probably see it as a lie, and that would annoy her. This new way of carrying the bridge, Rock said. Is not very useful, I think. Is He cut off as a horn call blared over the camp, echoing against stone buildings like the bleat of a distant greatshell. Kaladin grew tense. His men were on duty. He waited, tense, until the third set of horns blew. Line up! Kaladin yelled. Lets move! Unlike the other nineteen crews on duty, Kaladins men didnt scramble about in confusion, but assembled in an orderly fashion. Lopen dashed out, wearing a vest, then hesitated, looking at the four squads, not knowing where to go. Hed be cut to ribbons if Kaladin put him in front, but hed probably just slow them down anywhere else. Lopen! Kaladin shouted. The one-armed man saluted. Does he think hes actually in the military? You see that rain barrel? Go get some waterskins from the carpenters