difficult to share their mood. As they formed up around their bridge, he began to realize the source of his melancholy. His men were right back where theyd started. Or worse. He was weakened and injured, and had offended the highprince himself. Sadeas would not be pleased when he learned that Kaladin had survived his fever. The bridgemen were still destined to be cut down one by one. The side carry had been a failure. He hadnt saved his men, hed just given them a short stay of execution. Bridgemen arent supposed to survive. He suspected why that was. Gritting his teeth, he let go of the barrack wall and crossed to where the bridgemen stood in line, leaders of the sub-squads doing a quick check of their vests and sandals. Rock eyed Kaladin. And what is this thing you believe you are doing? Im joining you, Kaladin said. And what would you tell one of the men if they had just gotten up from a week with the fevers? Kaladin hesitated. Im not like the other men, he thought, then regretted it. He couldnt start believing himself invincible. To run now with the crew, as weak as he was, would be sheer idiocy. Youre right. You can help me and the moolie carry water, gancho, Lopen said. Were a team now. Go on every run. Kaladin nodded. All right. Rock eyed him. If Im feeling too weak at the end of the permanent bridges, Ill go back. I promise. Rock nodded reluctantly. The men marched under the bridge to the staging area, and Kaladin joined Lopen and Dabbid, filling waterskins. Kaladin stood at the edge of the precipice, hands clasped behind his back, sandaled toes at the very edge of the cliff. The chasm stared up at him, but he did not meet its gaze. He was focused on the battle being waged on the next plateau. This approach had been an easy one; theyd arrived at the same time as the Parshendi. Instead of bothering to kill bridgemen, the Parshendi had taken a defensive position in the center of the plateau, around the chrysalis. Now Sadeass men fought them. Kaladins brow was slick with sweat from the days heat, and he still felt a