cage, bare feet thumping on the wood. Bluth glared as Kaladin knelt beside the sick man. The flickering light illuminated a long, drawn face and nearly bloodless lips. The man had coughed up phlegm; it was greenish and solid. Kaladin felt the mans neck for swelling, then checked his dark brown eyes. Its called the grinding coughs, Kaladin said. He will live, if you give him an extra ladle of water every two hours for five days or so. Youll have to force it down his throat. Mix in sugar, if you have any. Bluth scratched at his ample chin, then glanced at the shorter slaver. Pull him out, Tvlakv said. The wounded slave awoke as Bluth unlocked the cage. The mercenary waved Kaladin back with his cudgel, and Kaladin reluctantly withdrew. After putting away his cudgel, Bluth grabbed the slave under the arms and dragged him out, all the while trying to keep a nervous eye on Kaladin. Kaladins last failed escape attempt had involved twenty armed slaves. His master should have executed him for that, but he had claimed Kaladin was intriguing and branded him with shash , then sold him for a pittance. There always seemed to be a reason Kaladin survived when those hed tried to help died. Some men might have seen that as a blessing, but he saw it as an ironic kind of torment. Hed spent some time under his previous master speaking with a slave from the West, a Selay man who had spoken of the Old Magic from their legends and its ability to curse people. Could that be what was happening to Kaladin? Dont be foolish, he told himself. The cage door snapped back in place, locking. The cages were necessary Tvlakv had to protect his fragile investment from the highstorms. The cages had wooden sides that could be pulled up and locked into place during the furious gales. Bluth dragged the slave over to the fire, beside the unpacked water barrel. Kaladin felt himself relax. There, he told himself. Perhaps you can still help. Perhaps theres a reason to care. Kaladin opened his hand and looked down at the crumbled black leaves in his palm. He didnt need these. Sneaking them into Tvlakvs drink would not only be difficult, but pointless. Did he really want the slaver dead? What would that accomplish? A low crack rang in the air, followed by a second one, duller, like someone dropping a bag of grain. Kaladin snapped his head up, looking to where Bluth had deposited the sick slave. The mercenary raised his cudgel one more time, then snapped it down, the weapon making a cracking sound as it hit the slaves skull.