south, toward his warcamp. The rest of them continued, toward Sadeass camp. As they drew closer, Dalinar noticed a small crowd gathering at the final chasm. Two figures in particular stood at their forefront. Renarin and Navani. What are they doing in Sadeass warcamp? Adolin asked, smiling through his fatigue, edging Sureblood up beside Dalinar. I dont know, Dalinar said. But the Stormfather bless them for coming. Seeing their welcome faces, he began to feel it sink infinallythat he had survived the day. Gallant crossed the last bridge. Renarin was there waiting, and Dalinar rejoiced. For once, the boy was displaying outright joy. Dalinar swung free from the saddle and embraced his son. Father, Renarin said, you live! Adolin laughed, swinging out of his own saddle, armor clanking. Renarin pulled out of the embrace and grabbed Adolin on the shoulder, pounding the Shardplate lightly with his other hand, grinning widely. Dalinar smiled as well, turning from the brothers to look at Navani. She stood with hands clasped before her, one eyebrow raised. Her face, oddly, bore a few small smears of red paint. You werent even worried, were you? he said to her. Worried? she asked. Her eyes met his, and for the first time, he noticed their redness. I was terrified. And then Dalinar found himself grabbing her in an embrace. He had to be careful as he was in Shardplate, but the gauntlets let him feel the silk of her dress, and his missing helm let him smell the sweet floral scent of her perfumed soap. He held her as tightly as he dared, bowing his head and pressing his nose into her hair. Hmm, she noted warmly, it appears that I was missed. The others are watching. Theyll talk. I dont care. Hmm It appears I was very much missed. On the battlefield, he said gruffly, I thought I would die. And I realized it was all right. She pulled her head back, looking confused. I have spent too much of my time worrying about what people think, Navani. When I thought my time had arrived, I realized that all my worrying had been wasted. In the end, I was pleased with how I had lived my life. He looked down at her, then mentally unlatched his right gauntlet, letting it drop to the ground with a clank. He reached up with that callused hand, cupping her chin. I had only two regrets. One for you, and one for Renarin.