teach peace and reverence for others, and would not force men to do as he wished. He would guide them to acting with honor. Nohadon turned to Dalinar. I apologize, Karm. I should not dismiss your suggestions right after asking for them. Im on edge, as I imagine that we all are. At times, it seems to me that to be human is to want that which we cannot have. For some, this is power. For me, it is peace. Nohadon turned, walking back down the balcony. Though his pace was slow, his posture indicated that he wished to be alone. Dalinar let him go. He goes on to become one of the most influential writers Roshar has ever known, Dalinar said. There was silence, save for the calls of the people working below, gathering the corpses. I know youre there, Dalinar said. Silence. What does he decide? Dalinar asked. Did he unite them, as he wanted? The voice that often spoke in his visions did not come. Dalinar received no answer to his questions. He sighed, turning to look out over the fields of dead. You are right about one thing, at least, Nohadon. To be human is to want that which we cannot have. The landscape darkened, the sun setting. That darkness enveloped him, and he closed his eyes. When he opened them, he was back in his rooms, standing with his hands on the back of a chair. He turned to Adolin and Renarin, who stood nearby, anxious, prepared to grab him if he got violent. Well, Dalinar said, that was meaningless. I learned nothing. Blast! Im doing a poor job of Dalinar, Navani said curtly, still scribbling with a reed at her paper. The last thing you said before the vision ended. What was it? Dalinar frowned. The last Yes, Navani said, urgent. The very last words you spoke. I was quoting the man Id been speaking with. To be human is to want that which we cannot have. Why? She ignored him, writing furiously. Once done, she slid off the high-legged chair, hurrying to his bookshelf. Do you have a copy of Yes, I thought you might. These are Jasnahs books, arent they? Yes, Dalinar said. She wanted them cared for until she returned. Navani pulled a volume off the shelf. Corvanas Analectics . She set the volume on the writing desk and leafed through the pages. Dalinar joined her, thoughof coursehe couldnt make sense of the page. What does it matter?