Dalinar turned his attention to Sadeas, speaking very softly, very pointedly. Sadeas. Surely I did not just hear you openlybefore the kingcall my son useless . Surely you would not say that, as such an insult would demand that I summon my Blade and seek your blood. Shatter the Vengeance Pact. Cause the kings two greatest allies to kill one another. Surely you would not have been that foolish. Surely I misheard. Everything grew still. Sadeas hesitated. He didnt back down; he met Dalinars gaze. But he did hesitate. Perhaps, Sadeas said slowly, you did hear the wrong words. I would not insult your son. That would not have beenwise of me. An understanding passed between them, stares locked, and Dalinar nodded. Sadeas did as wellone curt nod of the head. They would not let their hatred of one another become a danger to the king. Barbs were one thing, but dueling offenses were another. They couldnt risk that. Well, Elhokar said. He allowed his highprinces to jostle and contend for status and influence. He believed they were all stronger for it, and few faulted him; it was an established method of rule. More and more, Dalinar found himself disagreeing. Unite them. I guess we can be done with that, Elhokar said. To the side, Adolin looked unsatisfied, as if hed really been hoping that Dalinar would summon his Blade and confront Sadeas. Dalinars own blood felt hot, the Thrill tempting him, but he shoved it down. No. Not here. Not now. Not while Elhokar needed them. Perhaps we can be done, Your Majesty, Sadeas said. Though I doubt this particular discussion between Dalinar and me will ever be done. At least until he relearns how to act as a man should. I said that is quite enough, Sadeas, Elhokar said. Quite enough, you say? a new voice added. I believe that a single word from Sadeas is quite enough for anyone. Wit picked his way through the groups of attendants, holding a cup of wine in one hand, silver sword belted at his side. Wit! Elhokar exclaimed. When did you get here? I caught up to your party just before the battle, Your Majesty, Wit said, bowing. I was going to speak with you, but the chasmfiend beat me to you. I hear your conversation with it was rather energizing. But, you arrived hours ago, then! What have you been doing? How could I have missed seeing you here? I hadthings to be about, Wit said. But I couldnt stay away from the