Jost grunted, stumbling again, and Kal brought his weapon back around, preparing to smash Josts face. He raised his staff, but then froze. Jost was bleeding from the hand Kal had hit. Just a little, but it was blood. Hed hurt someone. Jost growled and lurched upright. Before Kal could protest, the larger boy swept Kals legs from underneath him, sending him to the ground, knocking the breath from his lungs. That set afire the wound in his side, and the painspren scampered across the ground, latching on to Kals side, looking like an orange scar as they fed on Kals agony. Jost stepped back. Kal lay on his back, breathing. He didnt know what to feel. Holding the staff in that moment had felt wonderful. Incredible. At the same time, he could see Laral to the side. She stood up and, instead of kneeling to help him, turned and walked away, toward her fathers mansion. Tears welled in Kals eyes. With a shout, he rolled over and grabbed the quarterstaff again. He would not give in! None of that now, Jost said from behind. Kal felt something hard on his back, a boot shoving him down to the stone. Jest took the staff from Kals fingers. I failed. Ilost. He hated the feeling, hated it far more than the pain. You did well, Jost said grudgingly. But leave off. I dont want to have to hurt you for real. Kal bowed his head down, letting his forehead rest on the warm, sunlit rock. Jost removed his foot, and the boys withdrew, chatting, their boots scraping on rock. Kal forced himself to his hands and knees, then up onto his feet. Jost turned back, wary, holding his quarterstaff in one hand. Teach me, Kal said. Jost blinked in surprise. He glanced at his brother. Teach me, Kal pled, stepping forward. Ill worm for you, Jost. My father gives me two hours off each afternoon. Ill do your work then if youll teach me, in the evenings, what your father is teaching you with that staff. He had to know. Had to feel the weapon in his hands again. Had to see if that moment hed felt had been a fluke. Jost considered, then finally shook his head. Cant. Your fah would kill me. Get those surgeons hands of yours all covered with calluses? Wouldnt be right. He turned away. You go be what you are, Kal. Ill be what I am. Kal stood for a long while, watching them go. He sat down on the rock. Larals figure was growing distant. There were some servants coming down the hillside to fetch her. Should he chase after her? His side still hurt, and he was annoyed at her for leading him down to the others in the first place. And, above