Jasnah sighed. Sometimes I forget how young you are. I can see how the theft might have looked tempting to you. It was stupid nonetheless. Ive arranged passage back to Jah Keved. You will leave in the morning. I It was more than she deserved. Thank you. Your friend, the ardent, is dead. Shallan looked up, dismayed. What happened? The bread was poisoned. Backbreaker powder. Very lethal, dusted over the bread to look like flour. I suspect the bread was similarly treated every time he visited. His goal was to get me to eat a piece. But I ate a lot of that bread! The jam had the antidote, Jasnah said. We found it in several empty jars hed used. It cant be! Ive begun investigating, Jasnah said. I should have done so immediately. Nobody quite remembers where this Kabsal came from. Though he spoke familiarly of the other ardents to you and me, they knew him only vaguely. Then he He was playing you, child. The whole time, he was using you to get to me. To spy on what I was doing, to kill me if he could. She spoke of it so evenly, so emotionlessly. I believe he used much more of the powder during this last attempt, more than hed ever used before, perhaps hoping to get me to breathe it in. He realized this would be his last opportunity. It turned against him, however, working more quickly than hed anticipated. Someone had almost killed her. Not someone, Kabsal . No wonder hed been so eager to get her to taste the jam! Im very disappointed in you, Shallan, Jasnah said. I can see now why you tried to end your own life. It was the guilt. She hadnt tried to kill herself. But what good would it do to admit that? Jasnah was taking pity on her; best not to give her reason not to. But what of the strange things Shallan had seen and experienced? Might Jasnah have an explanation for them? Looking at Jasnah, seeing the cold rage hidden behind her calm exterior, frightened Shallan enough that her questions about the symbolheads and the strange place shed visited died on her lips. How had Shallan ever thought of herself as brave? She wasnt brave. She was a fool. She remembered the times her fathers rage had echoed through the house. Jasnahs quieter, move justified anger was no less daunting. Well, you will need to learn to live with your guilt, Jasnah said. You might not have escaped with my fabrial, but you have thrown away a very