II understand. But I promise that Im feeling much better. The episode that struck me was caused by overwork. Now that Im relaxed, Im not in any further danger. That is good, he said. But we still need to keep you for a few more days. Yes, Your Majesty. But could I at least have visitors? So far, the hospital staff had insisted that she was not to be bothered. YesI can see how that might help you. Ill speak to the ardents and suggest that you be allowed a few visitors. He hesitated. Once you are well again, it might be best for you to suspend your training. She pasted a grimace on her face, trying not to feel sick at the charade. I hate to do that, Your Majesty. But I have been missing my family greatly. Perhaps I should return to them. An excellent idea. Im certain the ardents will be more likely to release you if they know youll be going home. He smiled in a kindly way, resting a hand on her shoulder. This world, it is a tempest sometimes. But remember, the sun always rises again. Thank you, Your Majesty. The king moved away, visiting other patients, then speaking quietly with the ardents. Not five minutes passed before Jasnah walked through the doorway with her characteristic straight-backed stride. She wore a beautiful dress, deep blue with golden embroidery. Her sleek black hair was done in braids and pierced by six thin golden spikes; her cheeks glowed with blush, her lips bloodred with lip paint. She stood out in the white room like a flower upon a field of barren stone. She glided toward Shallan on feet hidden beneath the loose folds of her silk skirt, carrying a thick book under her arm. An ardent brought her a stool, and she sat down where the king had just stood. Jasnah regarded Shallan, face stiff, impassive. I have been told that my tutelage is demanding, perhaps harsh. This is one reason why I often refuse to take wards. I apologize for my weakness, Brightness, Shallan said, looking down. Jasnah seemed displeased. I did not mean to suggest fault in you, child. I was attempting the opposite. Unfortunately Imunaccustomed to such behavior. Apologizing? Yes. Well, you see, Shallan said, in order to grow proficient at apologizing, you must first make mistakes. Thats your problem, Jasnah. Youre absolutely terrible at making them. The womans expression softened. The king mentioned to me that you