into things. Are you a Voidbringer or a Herald? Voidbringer, Im afraid, Axies said. I mean, I did destroy a temple. The beggars eyes grew more suspicious. Only the sacred cloth can banish me, Axies continued. And since you dontI say, what is that youre holding? The beggar looked down at his hand, which was touching one of the ratty blankets draped over one of his equally ratty boxes. He perched atop them, likewell, like a god looking down over his people. Poor fool, Axies thought. It was really time to be moving on. Wouldnt want to bring any bad luck down upon the addled fellow. The beggar held up the blanket. Axies shied back, raising his hands. That made the beggar smile a grin that could have used a few more teeth. He hopped off his box, holding the blanket up wardingly. Axies shied away. The beggar cackled and threw the blanket at him. Axies snatched it from the air and shook a fist at the beggar. Then he retreated from the alleyway while wrapping the blanket around his waist. And lo, the beggar said from behind, the foul beast was banished! And lo, Axies said, fixing the blanket in place, the foul beast avoided imprisonment for public indecency. Iriali were very particular about their chastity laws. They were very particular about a lot of things. Of course, that could be said for most peoplesthe only difference were the things they were particular about. Axies the Collector drew his share of stares. Not because of his unconventional clothingIri was on the northwestern rim of Roshar, and its weather therefore tended to be much warmer than that of places like Alethkar or even Azir. A fair number of the golden-haired Iriali men went about wearing only waist wraps, their skin painted various colors and patterns. Even Axiess tattoos werent that noteworthy here. Perhaps he drew stares because of his blue nails and crystalline deep blue eyes. Aimianseven Siah Aimianswere rare. Or perhaps it was because he cast a shadow the wrong way. Toward light, instead of away from it. It was a small thing, and the shadows werent long, with the sun so high. But those who noticed muttered or jumped out of the way. Likely theyd heard of his kind. It hadnt been that long since the scouring of his homeland. Just long ago enough for stories and legends to have crept into the general knowledge of most peoples. Perhaps someone important would take exception to him and have him brought before a local magistrate. Wouldnt be the first time. Hed learned long ago not to worry. When the Curse of Kind followed you, you learned to take what happened as it happened.