werent certain if you had survived. Aa decision has been made. It is time for the Oathpact to end. Kalak felt a sharp stab of horror. What will that do? Ishar believes that so long as there is one of us still bound to the Oathpact, it may be enough. There is a chance we might end the cycle of Desolations. Kalak looked into the immortal kings eyes. Black smoke rose from a small patch to their left. Groans of the dying haunted them from behind. There, in Jezriens eyes, Kalak saw anguish and grief. Perhaps even cowardice. This was a man hanging from a cliff by a thread. Almighty above, Kalak thought. Youre broken too, arent you? They all were. Kalak turned and walked to the side, where a low ridge overlooked part of the battlefield. There were so many corpses, and among them walked the living. Men in primitive wraps, carrying spears topped by bronze heads. Juxtaposed between them were others in gleaming plate armor. One group walked past, four men in their ragged tanned skins or shoddy leather joining a powerful figure in beautiful silver plate, amazingly intricate. Such a contrast. Jezrien stepped up beside him. They see us as divinities, Kalak whispered. They rely upon us, Jezrien. Were all that they have. They have the Radiants. That will be enough. Kalak shook his head. He will not remain bound by this. The enemy. He will find a way around it. You know he will. Perhaps. The king of Heralds offered no further explanation. And Taln? Kalak asked. The flesh burning. The fires. The pain over and over and over Better that one man should suffer than ten, Jezrien whispered. He seemed so cold. Like a shadow caused by heat and light falling on someone honorable and true, casting this black imitation behind. Jezrien walked back to the ring of swords. His own Blade formed in his hands, appearing from mist, wet with condensation. It has been decided, Kalak. We will go our ways, and we will not seek out one another. Our Blades must be left. The Oathpact ends now. He lifted his sword and rammed it into the stone with the other seven. Jezrien hesitated, looking at the sword, then bowed his head and turned away. As if ashamed. We chose this burden willingly. Well, we can choose to drop it if we wish. What do we tell the people, Jezrien? Kalak asked. What will they say of