Adolin found himself nodding. Yes, he said. Father, hes right. If we can box them in and hit them hard The Parshendi normally fled when they took large losses. That was one of the things extending the war so long. It could mean a turning point in the war, Sadeas said, eyes alight. My scribes estimate that they have no more than twenty or thirty thousand troops left. The Parshendi will commit ten thousand herethey always do. But if we can corner and kill all of them, we could nearly destroy their ability to wage war on these Plains. Itll work, Father, Adolin said eagerly. This could be what weve been waiting forwhat youve been waiting for. A way to turn the war, a way to deal enough damage to the Parshendi that they cant afford to keep fighting! We need troops, Dalinar, Sadeas said. Lots of them. How many men could you field, at maximum? On short notice? Dalinar said. Eight thousand, perhaps. It will have to do, Sadeas said. Ive managed to mobilize about seven thousand. Well bring them all. Get your eight thousand to my camp, and well take every one of my bridge crews and march together. The Parshendi will get there firstits inevitable with a plateau that close to their sidebut if we can be fast enough, we can corner them on the plateau. Then well show them what a real Alethi army is capable of! I wont risk lives on your bridges, Sadeas, Dalinar said. I dont know that I can agree to a completely joint assault. Bah, Sadeas said. Ive got a new way of using bridgemen, one that doesnt use nearly as many lives. Their casualties have dropped to almost nothing. Really? Dalinar said. Is it because of those bridgemen with armor? What made you change? Sadeas shrugged. Perhaps youre getting through to me. Regardless, we need to go now. Together. With as many troops as theyll have, I cant risk engaging them and waiting for you to catch up. I want to go together and assault as closely together as we can manage. If youre still worried about the bridgemen, I can attack first and gain a foothold, then let you cross without risking bridgeman lives. Dalinar looked thoughtful. Come on, Father, Adolin thought. Youve been waiting for a chance to hit the Parshendi hard. This is it! Very well, Dalinar said. Adolin, send messengers to mobilize the Fourth through Eighth Divisions. Prepare the men to march. Lets end this war.