Sadeas, in unmarred red Shardplate, was speaking with a group of officers in the shade of a nearby canopy. She stalked up to the canopy, but here a group of guards managed to bar her way, forming up shoulder to shoulder while one went to inform Sadeas of her arrival. Navani folded her arms impatiently. Perhaps she should have taken a palanquin, as her attending ladies had suggested. Several of them, looking beleaguered, were just arriving at the staging area. A palanquin would be faster in the long run, they had explained, as it would leave time for messengers to be sent so Sadeas could receive her. Once, she had obeyed such proprieties. She could remember being a young woman, playing the games expertly, delighting in ways to manipulate the system. What had that gotten her? A dead husband whom shed never loved and a privileged position in court that amounted to being put out to pasture. What would Sadeas do if she just started screaming? The kings own mother, bellowing like an axehound whose antenna had been twisted? She considered it as the soldier waited for a chance to announce her to Sadeas. From the corner of her eye, she noticed a youth in a blue uniform arriving in the staging area, accompanied by a small honor guard of three men. It was Renarin, for once bearing an expression other than calm curiosity. Wide-eyed and frantic, he hurried up to Navani. Mashala, he pled in his quiet voice. Please. What have you heard? Sadeass army returned without your fathers army, Navani said. There is talk of a rout, though it doesnt look as if these men have been through one. She glared at Sadeas, giving serious contemplation to throwing a fit. Fortunately, he finally spoke with the soldier and then sent him back. You may approach, Brightness, the man said, bowing to her. About time, she growled, shoving past and passing underneath the canopy. Renarin joined her, walking more hesitantly. Brightness Navani, Sadeas said, clasping his hands behind his back, imposing in his crimson Plate. I had hoped to bring you the news at your sons palace. I suppose that a disaster like this is too large to contain. I express my condolences at the loss of your brother. Renarin gasped softly. Navani steeled herself, folding her arms, trying to quiet the screams of denial and pain that came from the back of her mind. This was a pattern. She often saw patterns in things. In this case, the pattern was that she could never possess anything of value for long. It was always snatched from her just when it began to look promising. Quiet, she scolded herself. You will explain, she said to Sadeas, meeting