wash and painted glyphwards as men sharpened spears and polished breastplates. Barrack interiors had been partitioned to create rooms. I think you were right, Adolin said as they walked, trying to draw his father out of his contemplations. To let so many bring their families here, I mean. Yes, but how many will leave when this is over? Does it matter? Im not certain. The Shattered Plains are now a de facto Alethi province. How will this place appear in a hundred years? Will those rings of barracks become neighborhoods? The outer shops become markets? The hills to the west become fields for planting? He shook his head. The gemhearts will always be here, it seems. And so long as they are, there will be people here as well. Thats a good thing, isnt it? So long as those people are Alethi. Adolin chuckled. Perhaps. And what will happen to the value of gemstones if we continue to capture gemhearts at the rate we have? I That was a good question. What happens, I wonder, when the scarcest, yet most desirable, substance in the land suddenly becomes commonplace? Theres much going on here, son. Much we havent considered. The gemhearts, the Parshendi, the death of Gavilar. You will have to be ready to consider these things. Me? Adolin said. What does that mean? Dalinar didnt answer, instead nodding as the commander of the Fifth Battalion hastened up to them and saluted. Adolin sighed and saluted back. The Twenty-first and Twenty-second Companies were doing close order drill here an essential exercise whose true value few outside the military ever appreciated. The Twenty-third and Twenty-fourth Companies were doing extended orderor combatdrill, practicing the formations and movements used on the battlefield. Fighting on the Shattered Plains was very different from regular warfare, as the Alethi had learned from some embarrassing early losses. The Parshendi were squat, muscular, and had that strange, skin-grown armor of theirs. It didnt cover as fully as plate, but it was far more efficient than what most foot soldiers had. Each Parshendi was essentially an extremely mobile heavy infantryman. The Parshendi always attacked in pairs, eschewing a regular line of battle. That should have made it easy for a disciplined line to defeat them. But each pair of Parshendi had such momentumand was so well armoredthat they could break right through a shield wall. Alternatively, their jumping prowess could suddenly deposit entire ranks of Parshendi behind Alethi lines. Beyond all that, there was that distinctive way they moved as a group in