Young bridgeman? the apothecary asked. Is it a charm against evil you desire? Kaladins father had spoken of these things. Many apothecaries purveyed supposed love charms or potions to cure all manner of ailments. Theyd contain nothing more than some sugar and a few pinches of common herbs to give a spike of alertness or drowsiness, depending on the purported effect. It was all nonsense, though Kaladins mother had put great stock in glyphwards. Kaladins father had always expressed disappointment in her stubborn way of clinging to superstitions. I need some bandages, Kaladin said. And a flask of listers oil or knobweed sap. Also, a needle and gut, if you have any. The apothecarys eyes opened wide in surprise. Im the son of a surgeon, Kaladin admitted. Trained by his hand. He was trained by a man who had studied in the Great Concourse of Kharbranth. Ah, the apothecary said. Well. He stood up straighter, setting aside his cane and brushing his robes. Bandages, you said? And some antiseptic? Let me see. He moved back behind the counter. Kaladin blinked. The mans age hadnt changed, but he didnt seem nearly as frail. His step was firmer, and his voice had lost its whispering raspiness. He searched through his bottles, mumbling to himself as he read off his labels. You could just go to the surgeons hall. They would charge you far less. Not for a bridgeman, Kaladin said, grimacing. Hed been turned away. The supplies there were for real soldiers. I see, the apothecary said, setting a jar on the counter, then bending down to poke in some drawers. Syl flitted over to Kaladin. Every time he bends I think hell snap like a twig. She was growing able to understand abstract thought, and at a surprisingly rapid pace. I know what death is. He still wasnt certain whether to feel sorry for her or not. Kaladin picked up the small bottle and undid the cork, smelling what was inside. Larmic mucus? He grimaced at the foul smell. Thats not nearly as effective as the two I asked for. But its far cheaper, the old man said, coming up with a large box. He opened the lid, revealing sterile white bandages. And you, as has been noted, are a bridgeman. How much for the mucus, then? Hed been worried about this; his father had never mentioned how much his supplies cost. Two bloodmarks for the bottle.