productive done. As if the lack of storms left him without strength. Few people had seen much of Roshone since the ill-fated whitespine hunt and the death of his son. He hid in his mansion, increasingly reclusive. The people of Hearthstone trod very lightly, as if they expected that any moment he could explode and turn his rage against them. Kaladin wasnt worried about that. A stormwhether from a person or the skywas something you could react to. But this suffocation, this slow and steady dousing of lifeThat was far, far worse. Kaladin? Tiens voice called. Are you still up there? Yeah, he called back, not moving. The clouds were so bland during the Weeping. Could anything be more lifeless than that miserable grey? Tien rounded to the back of the building, where the roof sloped down to touch the ground. He had his hands in the pockets of his long raincoat, a wide- brimmed hat on his head. Both looked too large for him, but clothing always seemed too large for Tien. Even when it fit him properly. Kaladins brother climbed up onto the roof and walked up beside him, then lay down, staring upward. Someone else might have tried to cheer Kaladin up, and they would have failed. But somehow Tien knew the right thing to do. For the moment, that was keeping silent. You like the rain, dont you? Kaladin finally asked him. Yeah, Tien said. Of course, Tien liked pretty much everything. Hard to stare up at like this, though. I keep blinking. For some reason, that made Kaladin smile. I made you something, Tien said. At the shop today. Kaladins parents were worried; Ral the carpenter had taken Tien, though he didnt really need another apprentice, and was reportedly dissatisfied with the boys work. Tien got distracted easily, Ral complained. Kaladin sat up as Tien fished something out of his pocket. It was a small wooden horse, intricately carved. Dont worry about the water, Tien said, handing it over. I sealed it already. Tien, Kaladin said, amazed. This is beautiful . The details were amazing the eyes, the hooves, the lines in the tail. It looked just like the majestic animals that pulled Roshones carriage. Did you show this to Ral? He said it was good, Tien said, smiling beneath his oversized hat. But he told me I should have been making a chair instead. I kind of got into trouble. But howI mean, Tien, hes got to see this is amazing! Oh, I dont know about that, Tien said, still smiling. Its just a horse. Master Ral likes things you can use. Things to sit on, things to put clothes in.