but leniency is in order. I will allow you to petition me again at a later date, a privilege I have never given any aspiring ward. Once you have a sufficient groundwork in those two subjects, come to me again. If you have improved suitably, I will accept you. Shallans emotions sank. Jasnahs offer was kindly, but it would take years of study to accomplish what she asked. House Davar would have fallen by then, her familys lands divided among its creditors, her brothers and herself stripped of title and perhaps enslaved. Thank you, Brightness, Shallan said, bowing her head. Jasnah nodded, as if considering the matter closed. Shallan withdrew, walking quietly down the hallway and pulling the cord to ring for the porters. Jasnah had all but promised to accept her at a later date. For most, that would be a great victory. Being trained by Jasnah Kholinthought by some to be the finest living scholarwould have ensured a bright future. Shallan would have married extremely well, likely to the son of a highprince, and would have found new social circles open to her. Indeed, if Shallan had possessed the time to train under Jasnah, the sheer prestige of a Kholin affiliation might have been enough to save her house. If only. Eventually, Shallan made her way out of the Conclave; there were no gates on the front, just pillars set before the open maw. She was surprised to discover how dim it was outside. She trailed down the large steps, then took a smaller, more cultivated side path where she would be out of the way. Small shelves of ornamental shalebark had been grown along this walkway, and several species had let out fanlike tendrils to wave in the evening breeze. A few lazy lifespren like specks of glowing green dustflitted from one frond to the next. Shallan leaned back against the stonelike plant, the tendrils pulling in and hiding. From this vantage, she could look down at Kharbranth, lights glowing beneath her like a cascade of fire streaming down the cliff face. The only other option for her and her brothers was to run. To abandon the family estates in Jah Keved and seek asylum. But where? Were there old allies her father hadnt alienated? There was that matter of the strange collection of maps theyd found in his study. What did they mean? Hed rarely spoken of his plans to his children. Even her fathers advisors knew very little. Helaranher eldest brotherhad known more, but he had vanished over a year ago, and her father had proclaimed him dead. As always, thinking of her father made her feel ill, and the pain started to constrict her chest. She raised her freehand to her head, suddenly overwhelmed