book the cause of his problems? The visions had started several months after hed first listened to readings from it. He rested his hand on the cold, ink-filled pages. Their homeland was stressed nearly to breaking, the war was stalled, and suddenly he found himself captivated by the very ideals and myths that had led to his brothers downfall. This was a time the Alethi needed the Blackthorn, not an old, tired soldier who fancied himself a philosopher. Blast it all, he thought. I thought Id figured this out! He closed the leather- bound volume, the spine crackling. He carried it to the bookshelf and returned it to its place. Father? Renarin asked. Is there something I can do for you? I wish there were, son. Dalinar tapped the spine of the book lightly. Its ironic. This book was once considered one of the great masterpieces of political philosophy. Did you know that? Jasnah told me that kings around the world used to study it daily. Now, it is considered borderline blasphemous. Renarin gave no reply. Regardless, Dalinar said, walking back to the wall map. Highprince Aladar refused my offer of an alliance, just as Roion did. Do you have a thought on whom should I approach next? Adolin says we should be far more worried about Sadeass ploy to destroy us than we are. The room fell silent. Renarin had a habit of doing that, felling conversations like an enemy archer hunting officers on the battlefield. Your brother is right to worry, Dalinar said. But moving against Sadeas would undermine Alethkar as a kingdom. For the same reason, Sadeas wont risk acting against us. Hell see. I hope. Horns suddenly sounded outside, their deep, resounding calls echoing. Dalinar and Renarin froze. Parshendi spotted on the Plains. A second set came. Twenty-third plateau of the second quadrant. Dalinars scouts thought the contested plateau close enough for their forces to reach first. Dalinar dashed across the room, all other thoughts discarded for the moment, his booted feet thumping on the thick rug. He threw open the door and charged down the Stormlight-illuminated hallway. The war room door was open, and Telebhighofficer on dutysaluted as Dalinar entered. Teleb was a straight-backed man with light green eyes. He kept his long hair in a braid and had a blue tattoo on his cheek, marking him as an Oldblood. At the side of the room, his wife, Kalami, sat behind a long-legged desk on a high stool. She wore her dark hair with only two small side braids