I dont see what the problem is, Kadash said.  I think religion is romantic. Youre an ardent, Adolin said flatly. Besides, that scar makes you a little too unsightly for my tastes. He sighed. Its not so much the temple that has set her off, but my lack of attention. I havent been a very good companion today. You have matters pressing upon your mind, bright one? Kadash asked. Is this about your Calling? You havent made much progress lately. Adolin grimaced. His chosen Calling was dueling. By working with the ardents to make personal goals and fulfill them, he could prove himself to the Almighty. Unfortunately, during war, the Codes said Adolin was supposed to limit his duels, as frivolous dueling could wound officers who might be needed in battle. But Adolins father avoided battle more and more. So what was the point of not dueling? Holy one, Adolin said, we need to speak somewhere we cant be overheard. Kadash raised an eyebrow and led Adolin around the central apex. Vorin temples were always circular with a gently sloping mound at the center, by custom rising ten feet high. The building was dedicated to the Almighty, maintained by Dalinar and the ardents he owned. All devotaries were welcome to use it, though most would have their own chapter houses in one of the warcamps. What is it you wish to ask of me, bright one? the ardent asked once they reached a more secluded section of the vast chamber. Kadash was deferential, though he had tutored and trained Adolin during his childhood. Is my father going mad? Adolin asked. Or could he really be seeing visions sent by the Almighty, as I think he believes? Thats a rather blunt question. Youve known him longer than most, Kadash, and I know you to be loyal. I also know you to be one who keeps his ears open and notices things, so Im sure youve heard the rumors. Adolin shrugged. Seems like a time for bluntness if there ever was one. I take it, then, the rumors are not unfounded. Unfortunately, no. It happens during every highstorm. He raves and thrashes about, and afterward claims to have seen things. What sorts of things? Im not certain, precisely. Adolin grimaced. Things about the Radiants. And perhapsabout what is to come. Kadash looked disturbed. This is dangerous territory, bright one. What you are asking me about risks tempting me to violate my oaths. I am an ardent,