Facing that facthis heart pounding like a frightened animal in his chest, his legs unsteadyCenn suddenly realized that he was a coward. He shouldnt have left the herds! He should never have Son? the veteran said, voice firm. How old are you? Fifteen, sir. And whats your name? Cenn, sir. The mountainous, bearded man nodded. Im Dallet. Dallet, Cenn repeated, still staring out at the other army. There were so many of them! Thousands. Im going to die, arent I?  No . Dallet had a gruff voice, but somehow that was comforting. Youre going to be just fine. Keep your head on straight. Stay with the squad. But Ive barely had three months training! He swore he could hear faint clangs from the enemys armor or shields. I can barely hold this spear! Stormfather, Im dead . I cant Son, Dallet interrupted, soft but firm. He raised a hand and placed it on Cenns shoulder. The rim of Dallets large round shield reflected the light from where it hung on his back. You are going to be fine . How can you know? It came out as a plea. Because, lad. Youre in Kaladin Stormblesseds squad. The other soldiers nearby nodded in agreement. Behind them, waves and waves of soldiers were lining upthousands of them. Cenn was right at the front, with Kaladins squad of about thirty other men. Why had Cenn been moved to a new squad at the last moment? It had something to do with camp politics. Why was this squad at the very front, where casualties were bound to be the greatest? Small fearsprenlike globs of purplish goobegan to climb up out of the ground and gather around his feet. In a moment of sheer panic, he nearly dropped his spear and scrambled away. Dallets hand tightened on his shoulder. Looking up into Dallets confident black eyes, Cenn hesitated. Did you piss before we formed ranks? Dallet asked. I didnt have time to Go now.  Here?  If you dont, youll end up with it running down your leg in battle, distracting you, maybe killing you. Do it. Embarrassed, Cenn handed Dallet his spear and relieved himself onto the stones. When he finished, he shot glances at those next to him. None of Kaladins soldiers smirked. They stood steady, spears to their sides, shields on