Ill face them with Plate and Blade and show them what your honor means. That would be the same thing as me doing it, son. Adolin shook his head, staring at Dalinar. He seemed to be searching for something. What? Dalinar asked. Im trying to decide, Adolin said. Which one has changed you most. The visions, the Codes, or that book. If theres any difference between them. The Codes are separate from the other two, Dalinar said. They are a tradition of old Alethkar. No. Theyre related, Father. All three. Theyre tied together in you, somehow. Dalinar thought on that for a moment. Could the lad have a point? Have I told you the story of the king carrying the boulder? Yes, Adolin said. I have? Twice. And you made me listen to the passage being read another time. Oh. Well, in that same section, theres a passage about the nature of forcing people to follow you as opposed to letting them follow you. We do too much forcing in Alethkar. Dueling someone because they claim Im a coward doesnt change their beliefs. It might stop them from making the claims, but it doesnt change hearts. I know Im right about this. Youll just have to trust me on this as well. Adolin sighed, standing. Well, an official refutation is better than nothing, I guess. At least you havent given up on defending our honor entirely. I never will, Dalinar said. I just need to be careful. I cannot afford to divide us any further. He turned back to his meal, stabbing his last piece of chicken with his knife and shoving it in his mouth. Ill get back to the other island, then, Adolin said. IWait, is that Aunt Navani ? Dalinar looked up, surprised to see Navani walking toward them. Dalinar glanced at his plate. His food was gone; hed eaten the last bit without realizing it. He sighed, steeling himself, and rose to greet her. Mathana, Dalinar said, bowing and using the formal term for an older sister. Navani was only three months his senior, but it was still applicable. Dalinar, she said, a faint smile on her lips. And dear Adolin. Adolin smiled broadly; he rounded the table and hugged his aunt. She rested her clothed safehand on his shoulder, a gesture reserved only for family. When did you return? Adolin asked, releasing her.