Hashal wants to do it herself. In the name of her husband, of course. Kaladin gritted his teeth. Shed starve Bridge Four of members. So we get nothing. I didnt say that , Gaz said, then spat black spittle to the side. She gave you one. Thats something, at least, Kaladin thought. There were a good hundred men in the new group. Which one? Hed better be tall enough to carry a bridge. Oh, hes tall enough, Gaz said, gesturing a few slaves out of the way. Good worker too. The men shuffled aside, revealing one man standing at the back. He was a little shorter than average, but he was still tall enough to carry a bridge. But he had black and red marbled skin. A parshman ? Kaladin asked. To his side, Teft cursed under his breath. Why not? Gaz said. Theyre perfect slaves. Never talk back. But were at war with them! Teft said. Were at war with a tribe of oddities, Gaz said. Those out on the Shattered Plains are right different from the fellows who work for us. That much, at least, was true. There were a lot of parshmen in the warcamp, anddespite their skin markingsthere was little similarity between them and the Parshendi warriors. None had the strange growths of armorlike carapace on their skin, for instance. Kaladin eyed the sturdy, bald man. The parshman stared at the ground; he wore only a loincloth, and he had a thickness about him. His fingers were thicker than those of human men, his arms stouter, his thighs wider. Hes domesticated, Gaz said. You dont need to worry. I thought parshmen were too valuable to use in bridge runs, Kaladin said. This is just an experiment, Gaz said. Brightness Hashal wants to know her options. Finding enough bridgemen has been difficult lately, and parshmen could help fill in holes. This is foolishness, Gaz, Teft said. I dont care if hes domesticated or not. Asking him to carry a bridge against others of his kind is pure idiocy. What if he betrays us? Gaz shrugged. Well see if that happens. But Leave it, Teft, Kaladin said. You, parshman, come with me. He turned to walk back down the hill. The parshman dutifully followed. Teft cursed and did so as well. What trick are they trying on us, do you think? Teft asked. I suspect its just what he said. A test to see if a parshman can be trusted to run bridges. Perhaps hell do as hes told. Or perhaps hell refuse to run, or will