dying men had already yelled themselves hoarse. Almost everyone around them was an ally, but Dallet still watched to make sure no enemy soldiers tried to strike at Kaladins wounded. Why, Dallet? Cenn repeated, feeling urgent. Why bring me into his squad? Why me ? Dallet shook his head. Its just how he is. Hates the thought of young kids like you, barely trained, going to battle. Every now and again, he grabs one and brings him into his squad. A good half dozen of our men were once like you. Dallets eyes got a far-off look. I think you all remind him of someone. Cenn glanced at his leg. Painsprenlike small orange hands with overly long fingerswere crawling around him, reacting to his agony. They began turning away, scurrying in other directions, seeking other wounded. His pain was fading, his leghis whole bodyfeeling numb. He leaned back, staring up at the sky. He could hear faint thunder. That was odd. The sky was cloudless. Dallet cursed. Cenn turned, shocked out of his stupor. Galloping directly toward them was a massive black horse bearing a rider in gleaming armor that seemed to radiate light. That armor was seamlessno chain underneath, just smaller plates, incredibly intricate. The figure wore an unornamented full helm, and the plate was gilded. He carried a massive sword in one hand, fully as long as a man was tall. It wasnt a simple, straight swordit was curved, and the side that wasnt sharp was ridged, like flowing waves. Etchings covered its length. It was beautiful. Like a work of art. Cenn had never seen a Shardbearer, but he knew immediately what this was. How could he ever have mistaken a simple armored lighteyes for one of these majestic creatures? Hadnt Dallet claimed there would be no Shardbearers on this battlefield? Dallet scrambled to his feet, calling for the subsquad to form up. Cenn just sat where he was. He couldnt have stood, not with that leg wound. He felt so light-headed. How much blood had he lost? He could barely think. Either way, he couldnt fight. You didnt fight something like this. Sun gleamed against that plate armor. And that gorgeous, intricate, sinuous sword. It was likelike the Almighty himself had taken form to walk the battlefield. And why would you want to fight the Almighty? Cenn closed his eyes.