Two hours later, Shallan sat at a cluttered desk at the back of one of the Palanaeums lower-level rooms, her sphere lantern illuminating a stack of hastily gathered volumes, none of which had proven much use. It seemed that everybody knew something about the Voidbringers. People in rural areas spoke of them as mysterious creatures that came out at night, stealing from the unlucky and punishing the foolish. Those Voidbringers seemed more mischievous than evil. But then there would be the odd story about a Voidbringer taking on the form of a wayward traveler whoafter receiving kindness from a tallew farmerwould slaughter the entire family, drink their blood, then write voidish symbols across the walls in black ash. Most people in the cities, however, saw the Voidbringers as spirits who stalked at night, a kind of evil spren that invaded the hearts of men and made them do terrible things. When a good man grew angry, it was the work of a Voidbringer. Scholars laughed at all these ideas. Actual historical accountsthe ones she could find quicklywere contradictory. Were the Voidbringers the denizens of Damnation? If so, wouldnt Damnation now be empty, as the Voidbringers had conquered the Tranquiline Halls and cast out mankind to Roshar? I should have known that Id have trouble finding anything solid, Shallan thought, leaning back in her chair. Jasnahs been researching this for months, maybe years. What did I expect to find in a few hours? The only thing the research had done was increase her confusion. What errant winds had brought Jasnah to this topic? It made no sense. Studying the Voidbringers was like trying to determine if deathspren were real or not. What was the point? She shook her head, stacking her books. The ardents would reshelve them for her. She needed to fetch Tifandors biography and return to their balcony. She rose and walked toward the rooms exit, carrying her lantern in her freehand. She hadnt brought a parshman; she intended to carry back only the one book. As she reached the exit, she noticed another light approaching out on the balcony. Just before she arrived, someone stepped up to the doorway, holding aloft a garnet lantern. Kabsal? Shallan asked, surprised to see his youthful face, painted blue by the light. Shallan? he asked, looking up at the index inscription atop the entry-way. What are you doing here? Jasnah said you were looking for Tifandor. Igot turned around.