by a man in gleaming armor and a deadly Blade. The Parshendi had to bring him and Adolin down first. They knew it. Dalinar knew it. Adolin knew it. Stories spoke of battlefields where the Shardbearers were the last ones standing, pulled down by their enemies after long, heroic fights. Completely unrealistic. If you killed the Shardbearers first, you could take their Blades and turn them against the enemy. He swung again, muscles lagging with fatigue. Dying first. It was a good place to be. Ask nothing of them you wouldnt do yourself. Dalinar stumbled on the rocks, his Shardplate feeling as heavy as regular armor. He could be satisfied with the way hed handled his own life. But his men he had failed them. Thinking of the way he had stupidly led then into a trap, that sickened him. And then there was Navani. Of all the times to finally begin courting her, Dalinar thought. Six years wasted. A lifetime wasted. And now shell have to grieve again. That thought made him raise his arms and steady his feet on the stone. He fought off the Parshendi. Struggling on. For her. He would not let himself fall while he still had strength. Nearby, Adolins armor leaked as well. The youth was extending himself more and more to protect his father. There had been no discussion of trying, perhaps, to leap the chasms and flee. With chasms so wide, the chances were slimbut beyond that, they would not abandon their men to die. He and Adolin had lived by the Codes. They would die by the Codes. Dalinar swung again, staying at Adolins side, fighting in that just-out-of- reach tandem way of two Shardbearers. Sweat streamed down his face inside his helm, and he shot a final glance toward the disappearing army. It was just barely visible on the horizon. Dalinars current position gave him a good view down to the west. Let that man be cursed for For Blood of my fathers, what is that ? A small force was moving across the western plateau, running toward the Tower. A solitary bridge crew, carrying their bridge. It cant be, Dalinar said, stepping back from the fighting, letting the Cobalt Guardwhat was left of themrush in to defend him. Distrusting his eyes, he pushed his visor up. The rest of Sadeass army was gone, but this single bridge crew remained. Why? Adolin! he bellowed, pointing with his Shardblade, a surge of hope flooding his limbs.