possible safety of the bridge crew. They must be taking such heavy losses Kaladin thought numbly. He stumbled and fell to the ground; Teft and Lopen pulled Kaladin into a sheltered hollow, joining Skar and Dabbid. Skars foot bandage reddened with seeping blood, the spear hed been using as a staff resting beside him. Thought I told him to stay off that foot. We need spheres, Teft said. Skar? He asked for them this morning, the lean man said. Gave him everything I had. I think most of the men did the same. Teft cursed softly, pulling the remaining arrows from Kaladins arm, then wrapping it with bandages. Is he going to be all right? Skar asked. I dont know, Teft said. I dont know anything. Kelek! Im an idiot. Kaladin. Lad, can you hear me? Its just shock Kaladin said. Youre looking strange, gancho, Lopen said nervously. White. Your skin is ashen, lad, Teft said. It looks like you did something to yourself back there. I dont know I He cursed again, smacking his hand against the stone. I should have listened. Idiot! Theyd laid him on his side, and he could barely see the Tower. New groups of Parshendiones who hadnt seen Kaladins displaywere making for the chasm, bearing weapons. Bridge Four arrived and set down their bridge. They unstrapped their shields and hurriedly retrieved spears from the sacks of salvage tied at the bridges side. Then the men went to their positions pushing at the sides, preparing to slide the bridge across the gap. The Parshendi teams didnt have bows. They formed up to wait, weapons out. There were easily three times as many as there were bridgemen, and more were coming. Weve got to go help, Skar said to Lopen and Teft. The other two nodded, and all threetwo wounded and one missing an arm climbed to their feet. Kaladin tried to do likewise, but he fell back down, legs too weak to hold him. Stay, lad, Teft said, smiling. Well handle it just fine. They gathered some spears from a stock Lopen had put in his litter, then hobbled out to join the bridge crew. Even Dabbid joined them. He hadnt spoken since being wounded on that first bridge run, so long ago. Kaladin crawled up to the lip of the depression, watching them. Syl landed on the stone beside him. Storming fools, Kaladin muttered. Shouldnt have followed me. Proud of them anyway.