The young man turned, tracing Dalinars gesture. Adolin froze. Impossible! he yelled. What kind of trap is that? A foolish one, if it is a trap. We are already dead. But why would he send one back? What purpose? Does it matter? They hesitated for a moment amid the battle. Both knew the answer. Assault formations! Dalinar yelled, turning back to his troops. Stormfather, there were so few of them left. Less than half of his original eight thousand. Form up, Adolin called. Get ready to move! Were going to punch through them, men. Gather everything youve got. Weve got one chance! A slim one, Dalinar thought, pulling his visor down. Well have to cut through the rest of the Parshendi army. Even if they reached the bottom, theyd probably find the crew dead, their bridge cast into the chasm. The Parshendi archers were already forming up; there were more than a hundred of them. It would be a slaughter. But it was a hope. A tiny, precious hope. If his army was going to fall, it would do so while trying to seize that hope. Raising his Shardblade high, feeling a surge of strength and determination, Dalinar charged forward at the head of his men. For the second time in one day, Kaladin ran toward an armed Parshendi position, shield before him, wearing armor cut from the corpse of a fallen enemy. Perhaps he should have felt revolted at what hed done in creating his armor. But it was no worse than what the Parshendi had done in killing Dunny, Maps, and that nameless man who had shown Kaladin kindness on his first day as a bridgemen. Kaladin still wore that mans sandals. Us and them, he thought. That was the only way a soldier could think of it. For today, Dalinar Kholin and his men were part of the us. A group of Parshendi had seen the bridgemen approaching and was setting up with bows. Fortunately, it appeared that Dalinar had seen Kaladins band as well, for the army in blue was beginning to cut its way toward rescue. It wasnt going to work. There were too many Parshendi, and Dalinars men would be tired. It was another disaster. But for once, Kaladin charged into it with eyes wide open. This is my choice, he thought as the Parshendi archers formed up. Its not