Teft didnt feign ignorance, and easily fell into the role of the training sergeant, splitting the men into pairs, correcting their stances. No wonder he never takes off that shirt, Kaladin thought. It probably hides a mess of scars. As Teft instructed the men, Kaladin pointed to Rock, gesturing him over. Yes? Rock asked. The man was so broad of chest that his bridgemans vest could barely fasten. You said something before, Kaladin said. About fighting being beneath you? Is true. I am not a fourth son. What does that have to do with it? First son and second son are needed for making food, Rock said, raising a finger. Is most important. Without food, nobody lives, yes? Third son is craftsman. This is me. I serve proudly. Only fourth son can be warrior. Warriors, they are not needed as much as food or crafts. You see? Your profession is determined by your birth order? Yes, Rock said proudly. Is best way. On the Peaks, there is always food. Not every family has four sons. So not always is a soldier needed. I cannot fight. What man could do this thing before the Ulitekanaki ? Kaladin shot a glance at Syl. She shrugged, not seeming to care what Rock did. All right, he said. Ive got something else I want you to do, then. Go grab Lopen, Dabbid Kaladin hesitated. And Shen. Get him too. Rock did so. Lopen was in the line, learning the stances, though Dabbidas usualstood off to the side, staring at nothing in particular. Whatever had taken him, it was far worse than regular battle shock. Shen stood beside him, hesitant, as if not certain of his place. Rock pulled Lopen out of the line, then grabbed Dabbid and Shen and walked back to Kaladin. Gancho, Lopen said, with a lazy salute. Guess Ill make a poor spearman, with one hand. Thats all right, Kaladin said. I have something else I need you to do. Well see trouble from Gaz and our new captainor at least his wifeif we dont bring back salvage. We three cannot do the work of thirty, Kaladin, Rock said, scratching at his beard. Is not possible. Maybe not, Kaladin said. But most of our time down in these chasms is spent looking for corpses that havent been picked clean. I think we can work a lot faster. We need to work a lot faster, if were going to train with the spear. Fortunately, we have an advantage. He held out his hand, and Syl alighted on it. Hed spoken to her earlier, and