He was rambling. But, oddly, his mind felt clearer now than it had in weeks. Perhaps it was the clarity of perspective. Most men spent their entire lives wondering about the future. Well, his future was empty now. So he turned backward, thinking about his father, about Tien, about decisions. Once, his life had seemed simple. That was before hed lost his brother, before hed been betrayed in Amarams army. Would Kaladin go back to those innocent days, if he could? Would he prefer to pretend everything was simple? No. Hed had no easy fall, like those drops. Hed earned his scars. Hed bounced off walls, bashed his face and hands. Hed killed innocent men by accident. Hed walked beside those with hearts like blackened coals, adoring them. Hed scrambled and climbed and fallen and stumbled. And now here he was. At the end of it all. Understanding so much more, but somehow feeling no wiser. He climbed to his feet on the lip of that chasm, and could feel his fathers disappointment looming over him, like the thunderheads above. He put one foot out over the void. Kaladin! He froze at the soft but piercing voice. A translucent form bobbed in the air, approaching through the weakening rain. The figure lunged forward, then sank, then surged higher again, like it was bearing something heavy. Kaladin brought his foot back and held out his hand. Syl unceremoniously alighted upon it, shaped like a skyeel clutching something dark in its mouth. She switched to the familiar form of a young woman, dress fluttering around her legs. She held in her hands a narrow, dark green leaf with a point divided in three. Blackbane. What is this? Kaladin asked. She looked exhausted. These things are heavy! She lifted the leaf. I brought it for you! He took the leaf between two fingers. Blackbane. Poison. Why did you bring this to me? he said harshly. I thought Syl said, shying back. Well, you kept those other leaves so carefully. Then you lost them when you tried to help that man in the slave cages. I thought it would make you happy to have another one. Kaladin almost laughed. She had no concept of what shed done, fetching him a leaf of one of Roshars most deadly natural poisons because shed wanted to make him happy. It was ridiculous. And sweet. Everything seemed to go wrong when you lost that leaf, Syl said in a soft voice. Before that, you fought. I failed.