Kaladin leaned close, squinting. He thought he could faintly make out tiny spren, dark blue and shaped like little splashes of ink, clustering around the place where the rock met the wall. Bindspren, Syl said, walking up beside his head; she was still standing in the air. Theyre holding the rock in place. Maybe. Or maybe theyre attracted to what youve done in affixing the stone there. Thats not how it works. Is it? Do rotspren cause sickness, Syl said idly, or are they attracted to it? Everyone knows they cause it. And do windspren cause the wind? Rainspren cause the rain? Flamespren cause fires? He hesitated. No, they didnt. Did they? This is pointless. I need to find out how to get rid of this light, not study it. And why , Syl repeated, must you get rid of it? Kaladin, youve heard the stories. Men who walked on walls, men who bound the storms to them. Windrunners. Why would you want to be rid of something like this? Kaladin struggled to define it. The healing, the way he never got hit, running at the front of the bridgeYes, hed known something odd was happening. Why did it frighten him so? Was it because he feared being set apart, like his father always was as the surgeon in Hearthstone? Or was it something greater? Im doing what the Radiants did, he said. Thats what I just said. Ive been wondering if Im bad luck, or if Ive run afoul of something like the Old Magic. Maybe this explains it! The Almighty cursed the Lost Radiants for betraying mankind. What if Im cursed too, because of what Im doing? Kaladin, she said, you are not cursed. You just said you dont know whats happening. He paced in the alleyway. To the side, the rock finally plopped free and clattered to the ground. Can you say, with all certainty, that what Im doing might not have drawn bad luck down upon me? Do you know enough to deny it completely, Syl? She stood in the air, her arms folded, saying nothing. Thisthing, Kaladin said, gesturing toward the stone. It isnt natural. The Radiants betrayed mankind. Their powers left them, and they were cursed. Everyone knows the legends. He looked down at his hands, still glowing, though more faintly than before. Whatever weve done, whatever has happened to me, Ive somehow brought upon myself their same curse. Thats why everyone around me dies when I try to help them.