lighteyes of very high rank.  What? But my eyes are dark brown! Pardon me, Sigzil said. I didnt speak the right wordyou dont have the right word in your language. To you, a lighteyes is the same as a leader. In other kingdoms, though, other things make a man acurse this Alethi language. A man of high birth. A brightlord, only without the eyes. Anyway, the men think you must have been raised outside of Alethkar. As a leader. Sigzil looked back at the others. They were beginning to sit back down, attacking their stew with vigor. Its the way you lead so naturally, the way you make others want to listen to you. These are things they associate with lighteyes. And so they have invented a past for you. You will have a difficult time disabusing them of it now. Sigzil eyed him. Assuming it is a fabrication. I was there in the chasm the day you used that spear. A spear, Kaladin said. A darkeyed soldiers weapon, not a lighteyess sword. To many bridgemen, the difference is minimal. All are so far above us. So what is your story? Sigzil smirked. I wondered if you were going to ask. The others mentioned that you have pried into their origins. I like to know the men I lead. And if some of us are murderers? Sigzil asked quietly. Then Im in good company, Kaladin said. If it was a lighteyes you killed, then I might buy you a drink. Not a lighteyes, Sigzil said. And he is not dead. Then youre not a murderer, Kaladin said. Not for want of trying. Sigzils eyes grew distant. I thought for certain I had succeeded. It was not the wisest choice I made. My master He trailed off. Is he the one you tried to kill? No. Kaladin waited, but no more information was forthcoming. A scholar, he thought. Or at least a man of learning. There has to be a way to use this. Find a way out of this death trap, Kaladin. Use what you have. There has to be a way. You were right about the bridgemen, Sigzil said. We are sent to die. It is the only reasonable explanation. There is a place in the world. Marabethia. Have you heard of it? No, Kaladin said. It is beside the sea, to the north, in the Selay lands. The people are known for their great fondness for debate. At each intersection in the city they have