Kaladin, lad, Teft said reverently. That was It was meaningless, Kaladin said. Just a kata. Meant to work the muscles and make you practice the basic jabs, thrusts, and sweeps. Its a lot showier than it is useful. But No, really, Kaladin said. Can you imagine a man swinging a spear around his neck like that in combat? Hed be gutted in a second. Lad, Teft said. Ive seen katas before. But never one like that. The way you movedThe speed, the graceAnd there was some sort of spren zipping around you, between your sweeps, glowing with a pale light. It was beautiful. Rock started. You could see that? Sure, Teft said. Never seen a spren like that. Ask the other menI saw a few of them pointing. Kaladin glanced at his shoulder, frowning at Syl. She sat primly, legs crossed and hands folded atop her knee, pointedly not looking at him. It was nothing, Kaladin repeated. No, Rock said. That it certainly was not. Perhaps you should challenge Shardbearer. You could become brightlord! I dont want to be a brightlord, Kaladin snapped, perhaps more harshly than he should have. The other two jumped. Besides, he added, looking away from them. I tried that once. Wheres Dunny? Wait, Teft said, you Where is Dunny? Kaladin said firmly, punctuating each word. Stormfather. I need to keep my mouth shut. Teft and Rock shared a glance, then Teft pointed. We found some dead Parshendi around the bend. Thought youd want to know. Parshendi, Kaladin said. Lets go look. Might have something valuable. Hed never looted Parshendi bodies before; fewer of them fell into the chasms than Alethi. Is true, Rock said, leading the way, carrying a lit torch. Those weapons they have, yes, very nice. And gemstones in their beards. Not to mention the armor, Kaladin said. Rock shook his head. No armor. Rock, Ive seen their armor. They always wear it. Well, yes, but we cannot use this thing. I dont understand, Kaladin said. Come, Rock said, gesturing. Is easier than explaining. Kaladin shrugged, and they rounded the corner, Rock scratching at his red- bearded chin. Stupid hairs, he muttered. Ah, to have it right again. A man is