me, dont you? Even in the old days, you hated it when someone implied that you were insecure. Back then, your displeasure often ended with a head or two rolling across the stones. I killed many who did not deserve death, Dalinar said. A man should not fear losing his head because he took one too many sips of wine. Perhaps, Sadeas said lightly. But dont you ever want to let it out, as you used to? Doesnt it pound on you inside, like someone trapped within a large drum? Beating, banging, trying to claw free? Yes, Dalinar said. The admission seemed to surprise Sadeas. And the Thrill, Dalinar. Do you still feel the Thrill? Men didnt often speak of the Thrill, the joy and lust for battle. It was a private thing. I feel each of the things you mention, Sadeas, Dalinar said, eyes forward. But I dont always let them out. A mans emotions are what define him, and control is the hallmark of true strength. To lack feeling is to be dead, but to act on every feeling is to be a child. That has the stink of a quote about it, Dalinar. From Gavilars little book of virtues, I assume? Yes. Doesnt it bother you at all that the Radiants betrayed us? Legends. The Recreance is an event so old, it might as well be in the shadowdays. What did the Radiants really do? Why did they do it? We dont know. We know enough. They used elaborate tricks to imitate great powers and pretend a holy calling. When their deceptions were discovered, they fled. Their powers were not lies. They were real. Oh? Sadeas said, amused. You know this? Didnt you just say the event was so old, it might as well have been in the shadowdays? If the Radiants had such marvelous powers, why can nobody reproduce them? Where did those incredible skills go? I dont know, Dalinar said softly. Perhaps were just not worthy of them any longer. Sadeas snorted, and Dalinar wished hed bitten his tongue. His only evidence for what he said was his visions. And yet, if Sadeas belittled something, he instinctively wanted to stand up for it. I cant afford this. I need to be focused on the battle ahead. Sadeas, he said, determined to change the topic. We need to work harder to unify the warcamps. I want your help, now that youre Highprince of Information.