To do what? To do what needs to be done. For the good of Alethkar. Thats exactly what Im doing, old friend, Sadeas said. Killing Parshendi. Winning glory and wealth for our kingdom. Seeking vengeance. It would be best for Alethkar if youd stop wasting so much time in campand stop talking of fleeing like cowards. It would be best for Alethkar if youd start acting like a man again. Enough, Sadeas! Dalinar said, more loudly than hed intended. I gave you leave to come along for your investigation, not to taunt me! Sadeas sniffed. That book ruined Gavilar. Now its doing the same to you. Youve listened to those stories so much theyve got your head full of false ideals. Nobody ever really lived the way the Codes claim. Bah! Dalinar said, waving a hand and turning Gallant. I dont have time for your snideness today, Sadeas. He trotted his horse away, furious at Sadeas, then even more furious at himself for losing his temper. He crossed the bridge, stewing, thinking of Sadeass words. He found himself remembering a day when he stood with his brother beside the Impossible Falls of Kholinar. Things are different now, Dalinar, Gavilar had said. I see now, in ways I never did before. I wish I could show you what I mean. It had been three days before his death. Ten heartbeats. Dalinar closed his eyes, breathing in and outslowly, calminglyas they prepared themselves behind the siege bridge. Forget Sadeas. Forget the visions. Forget his worries and fears. Just focus on the heartbeats. Nearby, chulls scraped the rock with their hard, carapaced feet. The wind blew across his face, smelling wet. It always smelled wet out here, in these humid stormlands. Soldiers clanked, leather creaked. Dalinar raised his head toward the sky, his heart thumping deep within him. The brilliant white sun stained his eyelids red. Men shifted, called, cursed, loosened swords in their sheaths, tested bowstrings. He could feel their tension, their anxiety mixed with excitement. Among them, anticipationspren began to spring from the ground, streamers connected by one side to the stone, the others whipping in the air. Some fearspren boiled up among them.