prevent the Parshendi from escaping with the gemheart; there was no chance theyd arrive before the enemy. That meant it would probably be a difficult approach. Were not ready for the side carry, Kaladin thought nervously, as they finally drew close to an enormous plateau rising in an unusual shape. Hed heard of itthe Tower, it was called. No Alethi force had ever won a gemheart here. They set their bridge down before the penultimate chasm, positioning it, and Kaladin felt a foreboding as the scouts crossed. The Tower was wedge-shaped, uneven, with the southeastern point rising far into the air, creating a steep hillside. Sadeas had brought a large number of soldiers; this plateau was enormous, allowing the deployment of a larger force. Kaladin waited, anxious. Maybe theyd be lucky, and the Parshendi would already be gone with the gemheart. It was possible, this far out. The scouts came charging back. Enemy lines on the opposing rim! They havent gotten the chrysalis open yet! Kaladin groaned softly. The army began to cross on his bridge, and Bridge Four regarded him, solemn, expressions grim. They knew what would come next. Some of them, perhaps many of them, would not survive. It was going to be very bad this time. On previous runs, theyd had a buff er. When theyd lost four or five men, theyd still been able to keep going. Now they were running with just thirty members. Every man they lost would slow them measurably, and the loss of just four or five more would cause them to wobble, or even topple. When that happened, the Parshendi would focus everything on them. Hed seen it happen before. If a bridge crew started to teeter, the Parshendi pounced. Besides, when a bridge crew was visibly low on numbers, it always got targeted by the Parshendi to be taken down. Bridge Four was in trouble. This run could easily end with fifteen or twenty deaths. Something had to be done. This was it. Gather close, Kaladin said. The men frowned, stepping up to him. Were going to carry the bridge in side position, Kaladin said softly. Ill go first. Im going to steer; be ready to go in the direction I do. Kaladin, Teft said, side position is slow. It was an interesting idea, but Do you trust me, Teft? Kaladin asked. Well, I guess. The grizzled man glanced at the others. Kaladin could see that many of them did not, at least not fully. This will work, Kaladin said intently. Were going to use the bridge as a shield to block arrows. We need to hurry out in front, faster than the other