Here, Navani said. She looked up at Dalinar. When you go into these visions of yours, you know that you speak. Gibberish. Yes, my sons have told me. Anak malah kaf, del makian habin yah, Navani said. Sound familiar? Dalinar shook his head, baffled. It sounds a lot like what father was saying, Renarin said. When he was in the vision. Not a lot like Renarin, Navani said, looking smug. Its exactly the same phrase. That is the last thing you said before coming out of your trance. I wrote down everythingas best I couldthat you babbled today. For what purpose? Dalinar asked. Because, Navani said I thought it might be helpful. And it was. The same phrase is in the Analectics , almost exactly. What? Dalinar asked, incredulous. How? Its a line from a song, Navani said. A chant by the Vanrial, an order of artists who live on the slopes of the Silent Mount in Jah Keved. Year after year, century after century, theyve sung these same wordssongs they claim were written in the Dawnchant by the Heralds themselves. They have the words of those songs, written in an ancient script. But the meanings have been lost. Theyre just sounds, now. Some scholars believe that the scriptand the songs themselvesmay indeed be in the Dawnchant. And I Dalinar said. You just spoke a line from one of them, Navani said. Beyond that, if the phrase you just gave me is correct, you translated it. This could prove the Vanrial Hypothesis! One sentence isnt much, but it could give us the key to translating the entire script. It has been itching at me for a while, listening to these visions. I thought the things you were saying had too much order to be gibberish. She looked at Dalinar, smiling deeply. Dalinar, you might just have cracked one of the most perplexingand ancient mysteries of all time. Wait, Adolin said. What are you saying? What Im saying, nephew, Navani said, looking directly at him, is that we have your proof. But, Adolin said. I mean, he could have heard that one phrase And extrapolated an entire language from it? Navani said, holding up a sheet full of writings. This is not gibberish, but its no language that people now speak. I suspect it is what it seems, the Dawnchant. So unless you can think of another way your father learned to speak a dead language, Adolin, the visions are most certainly real. The room fell silent. Navani herself looked stunned by what she had said.