shoulder, the other from the opposite arm. Another had grazed his stomach, and the cut there had been widened by movement. It looked like his left leg had been trampled by a horse; it was broken, and he had a large gash where the skin had split. The other three are dead, Teft said. He nearly is too. Nothing much we can do. But you said to bring him, so Kaladin knelt down immediately, working with careful, efficient speed. He pressed a bandage against the side, holding it in place with his knee, then tied a quick bandage on the leg, ordering one of the soldiers to hold it firm and elevate the limb. Wheres that knife! Kaladin yelled, hurriedly tying a loose tourniquet around the arm. He needed to stop the blood right now; hed worry about saving the arm later. Youthful Dunny rushed over with the heated blade. Kaladin lifted the side bandage and quickly cauterized the wound there. Leyten was unconscious, his breathing growing more shallow. You will not die, Kaladin muttered. You will not die! His mind was numb, but his fingers knew the motions. For a moment, he was back in his fathers surgery room, listening to careful instruction. He cut the arrow from Leytens arm, but left the one in his shoulder, then sent the knife back to be reheated. Peet finally returned with the watergourd. Kaladin snatched it, using it to clean the leg wound, which was the nastiest, as it had been caused by trampling. When the knife came back, Kaladin pulled the arrow free of the shoulder and cauterized the wound as best he could, then used another of his quickly disappearing bandages to tie the wound. He splinted the leg with arrow shaftsthe only thing they had. With a grimace, he cauterized the wound there too. He hated to cause so many scars, but he couldnt afford to let any more blood be lost. He was going to need antiseptic. How soon could he get some of that mucus? Dont you dare die! Kaladin said, barely conscious that he was speaking. He quickly tied off the leg wound, then used his needle and thread to sew the arm wound. He bandaged it, then untied the tourniquet most of the way. Finally, he settled back, looking at the wounded man, completely drained. Leyten was still breathing. How long would that last? The odds were against him. The bridgemen stood or sat around Kaladin, looking strangely reverent. Kaladin tiredly moved over to Hobber and saw to the mans leg wound. It didnt need to be cauterized. Kaladin washed it out, cut away some splinters, then sewed it. There were painspren all around the man, tiny orange hands stretching