A moment later, Rock and a sheepish Teft scurried up to Kaladin. Sorry, Teft whispered. The walking mountain startled me. If I am being a mountain, Rock grumbled, then why werent you hearing me coming? Eh? Kaladin snorted, feeling the back of the indicated wagon, fingers brushing the X mark in the wood. He took a breath, then climbed under the wagon on his back. The reeds were still there, tied in twenty bundles, each about as thick as a handspan. Ishi, Herald of Luck be praised, he whispered, untying the first bundle. All there, eh? Teft said, leaning down, scratching at his beard in the moonlight. Cant believe we found so many. Must have pulled up every reed on the entire plain. Kaladin handed him the first bundle. Without Syl, they wouldnt have found a third this many. She had the speed of an insect in flight, and she seemed to have a sense of where to find things. Kaladin untied the next bundle, handing it out. Teft tied it to the other, making a larger bundle. As Kaladin worked, a flurry of small white leaves blew under the wagon and formed into Syls figure. She slid to a stop beside his head. No guards anywhere I could see. Just a boy in the chull pens. Her white-blue translucent figure was nearly invisible in the darkness. I hope these reeds are still good, Kaladin whispered. If they dried out too much Theyll be fine. You worry like a worrier. I found you some bottles. You did? he asked, so eager that he nearly sat up. He caught himself before smacking his head. Syl nodded. Ill show you. I couldnt carry them. Too solid. Kaladin quickly untied the rest of the bundles, handing them out to the nervous Teft. Kaladin scooted out, then took two of the larger, tied-together bundles of three. Teft took two of the others, and Rock managed three by tucking one under his arm. Theyd need a place to work where they wouldnt be interrupted. Even if the knobweed seemed worthless, Gaz would find a way to ruin the work if he saw what was happening. Bottle first, Kaladin thought. He nodded to Syl, who led them out of the wagonyard and to a tavern. It looked to have been hastily built from second-rate lumber, but that didnt stop the soldiers inside from enjoying themselves. Their rowdiness made Kaladin worry about the entire building collapsing. Behind it, in a splintery half-crate, lay a pile of discarded liquor bottles. Glass was precious enough that whole bottles would be reused, but these had