you would lack for attention. Thats like hanging a beautiful painting facing the wall. She leaned back on her safehand, finishing off her bread. I wouldnt say I lacked for attention, not quantitatively , for certain. My father paid me plenty of attention. Ive heard of him. A stern man, by reputation. Hes She had to pretend he was still alive. My father is a man of passion and virtue. Just never at the same time. Shallan! That might just be the wittiest thing Ive heard you say. And perhaps the most truthful. Unfortunately. Kabsal looked into her eyes, searching for something. What did he see? You dont seem to care for your father much. Another truthful statement. The berries are working on both of us, I see. Hes a hurtful man, I gather? Yes, though never to me. Im too precious. His ideal, perfect daughter. You see, my father is precisely the type of man to hang a picture facing the wrong way. That way, it cant be soiled by unworthy eyes or touched by unworthy fingers. Thats a shame. As you look very touchable to me. She glared. I told you, no more of that teasing. That wasnt teasing, he said, regarding her with deep blue eyes. Earnest eyes. You intrigue me, Shallan Davar. She found her heart thumping. Oddly, a panic rose within her at the same time. I shouldnt be intriguing. Why not? Logic puzzles are intriguing. Mathematical computations can be intriguing. Political maneuvers are intriguing. But womenthey should be nothing short of baffling. And what if I think Im beginning to understand you? Then Im at a severe disadvantage, she said. As I dont understand myself. He smiled. We shouldnt be talking like this, Kabsal. Youre an ardent. A man can leave the ardentia, Shallan. She felt a jolt. He looked steadily at her, not blinking. Handsome, soft- spoken, witty. This could grow very dangerous very quickly, she thought. Jasnah thinks youre getting close to me because you want her Soulcaster, Shallan blurted out. Then she winced. Idiot! Thats your response when a man hints that he might leave the service of the Almighty in order to be with you?