Shallan to know what Jasnah really thought if she adopted conflicting points of view like this? You act as if there were one answer, Jasnah said, gesturing to Shallan to fetch a towel and climbing from the pool. A single, eternally perfect response. Shallan hastily complied, bearing a large, fluffy towel. Isnt that what philosophy is about? Finding the answers? Seeking the truth, the real meaning of things? Toweling off, Jasnah raised an eyebrow at her. What? Shallan asked, suddenly self-conscious. I believe it is time for a field exercise, Jasnah said. Outside of the Palanaeum. Now? Shallan asked. Its so late! I told you philosophy was a hands-on art, Jasnah said, wrapping the towel around herself, then reaching down and taking the Soulcaster out of its pouch. She slipped the chains around her fingers, securing the gemstones to the back of her hand. Ill prove it to you. Come, help me dress. As a child, Shallan had relished those evenings when shed been able to slip away into the gardens. When the blanket of darkness rested atop the grounds, they had seemed a different place entirely. In those shadows, shed been able to imagine that the rockbuds, shalebark, and trees were some foreign fauna. The scrapings of cremlings climbing out of cracks had become the footsteps of mysterious people from far-off lands. Large-eyed traders from Shinovar, a greatshell rider from Kadrix, or a narrowboat sailor from the Purelake. She didnt have those same imaginings when walking Kharbranth at night. Imagining dark wanderers in the night had once been an intriguing gamebut here, dark wanderers were likely to be real. Instead of becoming a mysterious, intriguing place at night, Kharbranth seemed much the same to herjust more dangerous. Jasnah ignored the calls of rickshaw pullers and palanquin porters. She walked slowly in a beautiful dress of violet and gold, Shallan following in blue silk. Jasnah hadnt taken time to have her hair done following her bath, and she wore it loose, cascading across her shoulders, almost scandalous in its freedom. They walked the Ralinsathe main thoroughfare that led down the hillside in switchbacks, connecting Conclave and port. Despite the late hour, the roadway was crowded, and many of the men who walked here seemed to bear