a spray of stars in the sky above. Several of those moved about, the tiny pinpricks of light chasing after one another, zipping around like distant, glowing insects. Starspren. They were rare. Maps was a flat-faced fellow, his beard bushy, his eyebrows thick. Everyone called him Maps because of the birthmark on his chest that he swore was an exact map of Alethkar, though Kaladin hadnt been able to see the resemblance. Maps cleared his throat. Its a good night, a special night, and all. Weve got our bridgeleader back. Several of the men clapped. Kaladin tried not to show how sick he felt inside. Weve got good food coming, Maps said. He eyed Rock. It is coming, aint it, Rock? Is coming, Rock said, stirring. Youre sure about that? We could go on another bridge run. Give you a little extra time, you know, five or six more hours. Rock gave him a fierce look. The men laughed, several banging their bowls with their spoons. Maps chuckled, then he reached to the ground behind the stone he was using for a seat. He pulled out a paper-wrapped package and tossed it to Rock. Surprised, the tall Horneater barely caught it, nearly dropping it into the stew. From all of us, Maps said, a little awkwardly, for making us stew each night. Dont think we havent noticed how hard you work on it. We relax while you cook. And you always serve everyone else first. So we bought you something to thank you. He wiped his nose on his arm, spoiling the moment slightly, and sat back down. Several of the other bridgemen thumped him on the back, complimenting his speech. Rock unwrapped the package and stared into it for a long while. Kaladin leaned forward, trying to get a look at the contents. Rock reached in and held the item up. It was a straight razor of gleaming silvery steel; there was a length of wood covering the sharp side. Rock pulled this off, inspecting the blade. You airsick fools, he said softly. Is beautiful. Theres a piece of polished steel too, said Peet. For a mirror. And some beard soap and a leather strop for sharpening. Amazingly, Rock grew teary-eyed. He turned away from the pot, bearing his gifts. Stew is ready, he said. Then he ran into the barrack building. The men sat quietly. Stormfather, youthful Dunny finally said, you think we did the right thing? I mean, the way he complains and all I think it was perfect, Teft said. Just give the big lout some time to