pedestal doling out insults. Likely he felt hed played out that tactic. All nine other highprinces were in attendance. Their treatment of Dalinar had grown stiff and cold since refusing his requests to fight together. As if they were offended by the mere offer. Lesser lighteyes made alliances, but the highprinces were like kings themselves. Other highprinces were rivals, to be kept at arms length. Dalinar sent a servant to fetch him food and sat down at the table. His arrival had been delayed while he took reports from the companies hed called back, so he was one of the last to eat. Most of the others had turned to mingling. To the right, an officers daughter was playing a serene flute melody to a group of onlookers. To the left, three women had set up sketchpads and were each drawing the same man. Women were known to challenge each other to duels in the way of men with Shardblades, though they rarely used the word. These were always friendly competitions or games of talent. His food arrived, steamed stagma brownish tuber that grew in deep puddlesatop a bed of boiled tallew. The grain was puffed with water, and the entire meal was drenched in a thick, peppery, brown gravy. He slid out his knife and sliced a disk off the end of the stagm. Using his knife to spread tallew over the top, he grasped the vegetable disk between two fingers and began eat. It had been prepared both spicy and hot this night, probably because of the chill, and tasted good as he chewed, the steam from his plate fogging the air in front of him. So far, Jasnah had not replied regarding his vision, though Navani claimed she might be able to find something on her own. She was a renowned scholar herself, though her interests had always been more in fabrials. He glanced at her. Was he a fool to off end her as he had? Would it make her use the knowledge of his visions against him? No, he thought. She wouldnt be that petty. Navani did seem to care for him, though her affection was inappropriate. The chairs around him were left empty. He was becoming a pariah, first because of his talk of the Codes, then because of his attempts to get the highprinces to work with him, and finally because of Sadeass investigation. No wonder Adolin was worried. Suddenly, someone slid right into the seat beside Dalinar, wearing a black cloak against the chill. It wasnt one of the highprinces. Who would dare The figure lowered his hood, revealing Wits hawklike face. All lines and peaks, with a sharp nose and jaw, delicate eyebrows, and keen eyes. Dalinar sighed, waiting for the inevitable stream of too-clever quips. Wit, however, didnt speak. He inspected the crowd, his expression intense.