not to take it personally. Shallan winced, then blushed furiously. I didnt mean individually , Brightness Jasnah. I meant categorically. Jasnah lithely took her seat in the alcove. She raised an eyebrow at Shallan, then gestured for the parshman to set down his burden. Shallan still found Jasnah an enigma. At times, she seemed a stern scholar annoyed by Shallans interruptions. At other times, there seemed to be a hint of wry humor hiding behind the stern facade. Either way, Shallan was finding that she felt remarkably comfortable around the woman. Jasnah encouraged her to speak her mind, something Shallan had taken to gladly. I assume from your outburst that this topic is wearing on you, Jasnah said, sorting through her volumes as the parshman withdrew. You expressed interest in being a scholar. Well, you must learn that this is scholarship. Reading argument after argument from people who refuse to see any other point of view? Theyre confident. Im not an expert on confidence, Brightness, Shallan said, holding up a book and inspecting it critically. But Id like to think that I could recognize it if it were before me. I dont think thats the right word for books like this one from Mederia. They feel more arrogant than confident to me. She sighed, setting the book aside. To be honest, arrogant doesnt feel like quite the right word. Its not specific enough. And what would be the right word, then? I dont know. Errorgant, perhaps. Jasnah raised a skeptical eyebrow. It means to be twice as certain as someone who is merely arrogant, Shallan said, while possessing only one-tenth the requisite facts. Her words drew a hint of a smile from Jasnah. What you are reacting against is known as the Assuredness Movement, Shallan. This errorgance is a literary device. The scholars are intentionally overstating their case. The Assuredness Movement? Shallan asked, holding up one of her books. I guess I could get behind that. Oh? Yes. Much easier to stab it in the back from that position. That got only an eyebrow raise. So, more seriously, Shallan continued. I suppose I can understand the device, Brightness, but these books youve given me on King Gavilars death are more and more irrational in defending their points. What began as a rhetorical conceit seems to have descended into name- calling and squabbling.