to go, run, fight. The line disintegrated. As soon as that happened, Kaladins squad broke into a dash, running out into the front at full speed. Cenn scrambled to keep up, panicked and terrified. The ground wasnt as smooth as it had seemed, and he nearly tripped on a hidden rockbud, vines withdrawn into its shell. He righted himself and kept going, holding his spear in one hand, his shield clapping against his back. The distant army was in motion as well, their soldiers charging down the field. There was no semblance of a battle formation or a careful line. This wasnt anything like the training had claimed it would be. Cenn didnt even know who the enemy was. A landlord was encroaching on Brightlord Amarams territorythe land owned, ultimately, by Highprince Sadeas. It was a border skirmish, and Cenn thought it was with another Alethi princedom. Why were they fighting each other? Perhaps the king would have put a stop to it, but he was on the Shattered Plains, seeking vengeance for the murder of King Gavilar five years before. The enemy had a lot of archers. Cenns panic climbed to a peak as the first wave of arrows flew into the air. He stumbled again, itching to take out his shield. But Dallet grabbed his arm and yanked him forward. Hundreds of arrows split the sky, dimming the sun. They arced and fell, dropping like skyeels upon their prey. Amarams soldiers raised shields. But not Kaladins squad. No shields for them. Cenn screamed. And the arrows slammed into the middle ranks of Amarams army, behind him. Cenn glanced over his shoulder, still running. The arrows fell behind him. Soldiers screamed, arrows broke against shields; only a few straggling arrows landed anywhere near the front ranks. Why? he yelled at Dallet. How did you know? They want the arrows to hit where the men are most crowded, the large man replied. Where theyll have the greatest chance of finding a body. Several other groups in the van left their shields lowered, but most ran awkwardly with their shields angled up to the sky, worried about arrows that wouldnt hit them. That slowed them, and they risked getting trampled by the men behind who were getting hit. Cenn itched to raise his shield anyway; it felt so wrong to run without it. The second volley hit, and men screamed in pain. Kaladins squad barreled toward the enemy soldiers, some of whom were dying to arrows from Amarams archers. Cenn could hear the enemy soldiers bellowing war cries, could make out individual faces. Suddenly, Kaladins squad pulled to a halt, forming a tight group. Theyd reached the small incline that Kaladin and Dallet had chosen