in Jasnahs alcove. Id like to use the alcove there, she said, pointing to the next balcony over. Do you have a chit of admittance? Im afraid not. Then youll have to rent the space if you wish to use it regularly. Two skymarks. Wincing at the price, Shallan dug out the proper spheres and paid. Her money pouches were looking depressingly flat. She let the parshman porters haul her up to the appropriate level, then she quietly walked to her alcove. There, she used all her remaining spheres to fill the oversized goblet lamp. To get enough light, she was forced to use spheres of all nine colors and all three sizes, so the illumination was patchy and varied. Shallan peeked over the side of her alcove, out at the next balcony over. Jasnah sat studying, heedless of the hour, her goblet filled to the brim with pure diamond broams. They were best for light, but less useful in Soulcasting, so werent as valuable. Shallan ducked back around. There was a place at the very edge of the alcoves table where she could sit, hidden by the wall from Jasnah, so she sat there. Perhaps she should have chosen an alcove on another level, but she wanted to keep an eye on the woman. Hopefully Jasnah would spend weeks here studying. Enough time for Shallan to dedicate herself to some fierce cramming. Her ability to memorize pictures and scenes didnt work as well on text, but she could learn lists and facts at a rate that her tutors had found remarkable. She settled herself in the chair, pulling out the books and arranging them. She rubbed her eyes. It was really quite late, but there wasnt time to waste. Jasnah had said that Shallan could make another petition when the gaps in her knowledge were filled. Well, Shallan intended to fill those gaps in record time, then present herself again. Shed do it when Jasnah was ready to leave Kharbranth. It was a last, desperate hope, so frail that a strong gust of circumstance seemed likely to topple it. Taking a deep breath, Shallan opened the first of the history books. Im never going to be rid of you, am I? a soft, feminine voice asked. Shallan jumped up, nearly knocking over her books as she spun toward the doorway. Jasnah Kholin stood there, deep blue dress embroidered in silver, its silken sheen reflecting the light of Shallans spheres. The Soulcaster was covered by a fingerless black glove to block the bright gemstones. Brightness, Shallan said, rising and curtsying in an awkward rush. I didnt mean to disturb you. I