though it was mostly auburn. There was nothing wrong with light hair. In fact, why was it that they all were so fond of dark hair, when light eyes were the ideal? Stop it, Adolin told himself. Youll end up brooding as much as Father. The other twoToral and his companion Eshavawere both lighteyes from Highprince Aladars camp. House Kholin was currently out of favor, but Adolin had acquaintances or friends in nearly all of the warcamps. Wrongness can be amusing, Toral said. It keeps life interesting. If we were all right all the time, where would that leave us? My dear, his companion said. Didnt you once claim to me that you were nearly always right? Yes, Toral said. And so if everyone were like me, who would I make sport of? Id dread being made so mundane by everyone elses competence. Adolin smiled, taking a drink of his wine. He had a formal duel in the arena today, and hed found that a cup of yellow beforehand helped him relax. Well, you neednt worry about me being right too often, Toral. I was sure Sadeas would move against my father. It doesnt make sense. Why wouldnt he? Positioning, perhaps? Toral said. He was a keen fellow, known for his refined sense of taste. Adolin always wanted him along when trying wines. He wants to look strong. He was strong, Adolin said. He gains no more by not moving against us. Now, Danlan said, voice soft with a breathless quality to it, I know that Im quite new to the warcamps, and my assessment is bound to reflect my ignorance, but You always say that, you know, Adolin said idly. He liked her voice quite a bit. I always say what? That youre ignorant, Adolin said. However, youre anything but. Youre among the most clever women Ive met. She hesitated, looking oddly annoyed for a moment. Then she smiled. You shouldnt say such thingsAdolinwhen a woman is attempting humility. Oh, right. Humility. Ive forgotten that existed. Too much time around Sadeass lighteyes? Jakamav said, eliciting another tinkling laugh from Inkima. Anyway, Adolin said. Im sorry. Please continue. I was saying, Danlan said, that I doubt Sadeas would wish to start a war. Moving against your father in such an obvious way would have done that, wouldnt it? Undoubtedly, Adolin said.