Baxil hastened down the lavish palace corridor, clutching the bulky bag of tools. A sound like a footfall came from behind him and he jumped, spinning. He didnt see anything. The corridor was empty, a golden carpet lining the floor, mirrors on the walls, arched ceiling inlaid with elaborate mosaics. Would you stop that? Av said, walking beside him. Every time you jump I nearly cuff you one out of surprise. I cant help it, Baxil said. Shouldnt we be doing this at night? Mistress knows what shes doing, Av said. Like Baxil, Av was Emuli, with dark skin and hair. But the taller man was far more self-confident. He sauntered down the halls, acting as if theyd been invited, thick-bladed sword slung in a sheath over his shoulder. If the Prime Kadasix may provide, Baxil thought, Id rather Av never have to draw that weapon. Thank you. Their mistress walked ahead of them, the only other person in the hallway. She wasnt Emulishe didnt even seem Makabaki, though she had dark skin and long, beautiful black hair. She had eyes like a Shin, but she was tall and lean, like an Alethi. Av thought she was a mixed breed. Or so he said when they dared talk about such things. The mistress had good ears. Strangely good ears. She stopped at the next intersection. Baxil caught himself glancing over his shoulder again. Av elbowed him, but he couldnt help looking. Yes, the mistress claimed that the palace servants would be busy getting the new guest wing ready, but this was the home of Ashno of Sages himself. One of the richest and holiest men in all of Emul. He had hundreds of servants. What if one of them walked down this hallway? The two men joined their mistress at the intersection. He forced his eyes forward so he wouldnt keep looking over his shoulder, but then found himself staring at the mistress. It was dangerous, being employed by a woman as beautiful as she was, with that long black hair, worn free, hanging down to her waist. She never wore a proper womans robe, or even a dress or skirt. Always