extravagant dress and mannerisms lead me to underestimate him. But theres a good man inside of him, son. He is not our enemy. We can be petty sometimes, the two of us. But he works to protect Elhokar, so I ask you to respect that. How did one respond to that? You hate him, but you ask me not to? All right, Adolin said. Ill watch myself around him. But, Father, I still dont trust him. Please. At least consider the possibility that hes not as committed as you are, that hes playing you. Very well, Dalinar said. Ill consider it. Adolin nodded. It was something. What of what he said at the end? Something about writing? Dalinar hesitated. It is a secret he and I share. Other than us, only Jasnah and Elhokar know of it. Ive contemplated for a time whether I should tell you, as you will take my place should I fall. I spoke to you of the last words my brother said to me. Asking you to follow the Codes. Yes. But there is more. Something else he said to me, but not with spoken words. Instead, these are words thathe wrote. Gavilar could write ? When Sadeas discovered the kings body, he found words written on the fragment of a board, using Gavilars own blood. Brother, they said. You must find the most important words a man can say. Sadeas hid the fragment away, and we later had Jasnah read the words. If it is true that he could writeand other possibilities seem implausibleit was a shameful secret he hide. As I said, his actions grew very odd near the end of his life. And what does it mean? Those words? Its a quote, Dalinar said. From an ancient book called The Way of Kings . Gavilar favored readings from the volume near the end of his lifehe spoke to me of it often. I didnt realize the quote was from it until recently; Jasnah discovered it for me. Ive now had the text of the book read to me a few times, but so far, I find nothing to explain why he wrote what he did. He paused. The book was used by the Radiants as a kind of guidebook, a book of counsel on how to live their lives. The Radiants? Stormfather! Adolin thought. The delusions his father had they often seemed to have something to do with the Radiants. This was further proof that the delusions were related to Dalinars guilt over his brothers death. But what could Adolin do to help? Metal footsteps ground on the rock behind. Adolin turned, then nodded in respect as the king approached, still wearing his golden Shardplate, though hed removed the helm. He was several years Adolins senior, and had a bold face