And hed never been good at doing what a warrior should. Today, hed saved a highprinceanother lighteyesand along with him thousands of soldiers. Saved them by killing Parshendi. Can you kill to protect? Kaladin asked out loud. Is that a self- contradiction? I I dont know. You acted strangely in the battle, Kaladin said. Swirling around me. After that, you left. I didnt see much of you. The killing, she said softly. It hurt me. I had to go. Yet youre the one who prompted me to go and save Dalinar. You wanted me to return and kill. I know. Teft said that the Radiants held to a standard, Kaladin said. He said that by their rules, you shouldnt do terrible things to accomplish great ones. Yet what did I do today? Slaughter Parshendi in order to save Alethi. What of that? They arent innocent, but neither are we. Not by a faint breeze or a stormwind. Syl didnt reply. If I hadnt gone to save Dalinars men, Kaladin said, I would have allowed Sadeas to commit a terrible betrayal. Id have let men die who I could have saved. Id have been sick and disgusted with myself. I also lost three good men, bridgemen who were mere breaths away from freedom. Are the lives of the others worth that? I dont have the answers, Kaladin. Does anyone? Footsteps came from behind. Syl turned. Its him. The moon had just risen. Dalinar Kholin, it appeared, was a punctual man. He stepped up beside Kaladin. He carried a bundle under his arm, and he had a military air about him, even without his Shardplate on. In fact, he was more impressive without it. His muscular build indicated that he did not rely on his Plate to give him strength, and the neatly pressed uniform indicated a man who understood that others were inspired when their leader looked the part. Others have looked just as noble, Kaladin thought. But would any man trade a Shardblade just to keep up appearances? And if they would, at what point did the appearance become reality? Im sorry to make you meet me so late, Dalinar said. I know it has been a long day. I doubt I could have slept anyway. Dalinar grunted softly, as if he understood. Your men are seen to? Yes, Kaladin said. Quite well, actually. Thank you. Kaladin had been