music and the hum of conversation on the island were loud enough to keep people from overhearing them. Some women had taken to playing flutes, musicspren spinning around them in the air. You ask why I returned, Navani said, voice soft. Well, I have three reasons. First, I wanted to bring word that the Vedens have perfected their half- shards as they call them. Theyre claiming the shields can stop blows from a Shardblade. Dalinar folded his arms before him on the table. Hed heard rumors of this, though hed discounted them. Men were always claiming to be close to creating new Shards, yet the promises were never fulfilled. Have you seen one? No. But I have confirmation from someone I trust. She says they can only take the shape of a shield and dont lend any of Plates other enhancements. But they can block a Shardblade. It was a stepa very small steptoward Shardplate. That was disturbing. He wouldnt believe it himself until hed seen what these half-shards could do. You could have sent this news via spanreed, Navani. Well, I realized soon after reaching Kholinar that leaving here had been a political mistake. More and more, these warcamps are the true center of our kingdom. Yes, Dalinar said quietly. Our absence from our homeland is dangerous. Hadnt that been the very argument that had convinced Navani to go home in the first place? The stately woman waved a dismissive hand. I have determined that the queen is sufficiently endowed with the requisite skills needed to hold Alethkar. There are schemes and plotsthere will always be schemes and plotsbut the truly important players inevitably make their way here. Your son continues to see assassins around every corner, Dalinar said softly. And shouldnt he? After what happened to his father True, but I fear he carries it to extremes. He mistrusts even his allies. Navani folded her hands in her lap, freehand lying atop safehand. Hes not very good at this, is he? Dalinar blinked in shock. What? Elhokar is a good man! He has more integrity than any other lighteyes in this army. But his rule is weak, Navani said. You must admit that. He is king, Dalinar said firmly, and my nephew. He has both my sword and my heart, Navani, and I will not hear ill spoken of him, even by his own mother. She eyed him. Was she testing his loyalty? Much like her daughter, Navani