Gaz caught sight of Kaladin approaching and displayed a look of urgent, wide-eyed horror. He broke off his conversation and hastily rushed around the side of a stack of logs. Syl, Kaladin said, could you follow him for me? She smiled, then became a faint line of white, shooting through the air and leaving a trail that vanished slowly. Kaladin stopped where Gaz had been standing. Syl zipped back a short time later and reassumed her girlish form. Hes hiding between those two barracks. She pointed. Hes crouched there, watching to see if you follow. With a smile, Kaladin took the long way around the barracks. In the alleyway, he found a figure crouching in the shadows, watching in the other direction. Kaladin crept forward, then grabbed Gazs shoulder. Gaz let out a yelp, spinning, swinging. Kaladin caught the fist easily. Gaz looked up at Kaladin with horror. I wasnt going to lie! Storm you, you dont have authority anywhere other than on the field. If you hurt me again, Ill have you Calm yourself, Gaz, Kaladin said, releasing the man. Im not going to hurt you. Not yet, at least. The shorter man backed away, rubbing his shoulder and glaring at Kaladin. Todays third pass, Kaladin said. Payday. You get your pay in an hour like everyone else. No. You have it now; I saw you talking to the courier there. He held out his hand. Gaz grumbled, but pulled out a pouch and counted spheres. Tiny, tentative white lights shone at their centers. Diamond marks, each worth five diamond chips. A single chip would buy a loaf of bread. Gaz counted out four marks, though there were five days to a week. He handed them to Kaladin, but Kaladin left his hand open, palm forward. The other one, Gaz. You said Now. Gaz jumped, then pulled out a sphere. You have a strange way of keeping your word, lordling. You promised me He trailed off as Kaladin took the sphere hed just been given and handed it back. Gaz frowned. Dont forget where this comes from, Gaz. Ill keep to my word, but you arent keeping part of my pay. Im giving it to you. Understand?