choosing between two patients. If the wounds are equal, treat the youngest first. Then see to my son! If the wounds are not equally threatening, Lirin continued, treat the worst wound first. As Ive been telling you ! The third guideline supersedes them both, Roshone, Lirin said, leaning down. A surgeon must know when someone is beyond their ability to help. Im sorry, Roshone. I would save him if I could, I promise you. But I cannot. No! Roshone said, struggling again. Kaladin! Quickly! Lirin said. Kaladin dashed over. He pressed the bandage of dazewater to Roshones chin and mouth, just below the nose, forcing the lighteyed man to breathe the fumes. Kaladin held his own breath, as hed been trained. Roshone bellowed and screamed, but the two of them held him down, and he was weak from blood loss. Soon, his bellows became softer. In seconds, he was speaking in gibberish and grinning to himself. Lirin turned back to the leg wound while Kaladin went to throw away the dazewater bandage. No. Administer it to Rillir. His father didnt look away from his work. Its the only mercy we can give him. Kaladin nodded and used the dazewater bandage on the wounded youth. Rillirs breathing grew less frantic, though he didnt seem conscious enough to notice the effects. Then Kaladin threw the bandage with the dazewater into the brazier; heat negated the effects. The white, puffy bandage wrinkled and browned in the fire, steam streaming off it as the edges burst into flame. Kaladin returned with the sponge and washed out Roshones wound as Lirin prodded at it. There were a few shards of tusk trapped inside, and Lirin muttered to himself, getting out his tongs and razor-sharp knife. Damnation can take them all, Lirin said, pulling out the first sliver of tusk. Behind him, Rillir fell still. Isnt sending half of us to war enough for them? Do they have to seek death even when theyre living in a quiet township? Roshone should never have gone looking for the storming whitespine. He was looking for it? They went hunting it, Lirin spat. Wistiow and I used to joke about lighteyes like them. If you cant kill men, you kill beasts. Well, this is what you found, Roshone. Father, Kaladin said softly. Hes not going to be pleased with you when he awakes. The brightlord was humming softly, lying back, eyes closed. Lirin didnt respond. He yanked out another fragment of tusk, and Kaladin washed out the wound. His father pressed his fingers to the side of the large