expect proper treatment from those around you. You see, there, Sadeas said. Who talks like that? Dalinar does, Elhokar said, though he was still watching the dueling. My father used to. Precisely, Sadeas said. Dalinar, friend, the others simply cannot accept that the things you say are serious. They assume it must be an act. And you? What do you think of me? I can see the truth. Which is? That you are a self-righteous prude, Sadeas said lightly. But you come by it honestly. Im certain you mean that to be a compliment too. Actually, this time Im just trying to annoy you. Sadeas raised his cup of wine to Dalinar. To the side, Elhokar grinned. Sadeas. That was quite nearly clever. Shall I have to name you the new Wit? What happened to the old one? Sadeass voice was curious, even eager, as if hoping to hear that tragedy had befallen Wit. Elhokars grin became a scowl. He vanished. Is that so? How disappointing. Bah. Elhokar waved a gauntleted hand. He does this on occasion. Hell return eventually. Unreliable as Damnation itself, that one. If he didnt make me laugh so, Id have replaced him seasons ago. They fell silent, and the dueling continued. A few other lighteyesboth women and menwatched, seated on the benchlike ridges. Dalinar noted with discomfort that Navani had arrived, and was chatting with a group of women, including Adolins latest infatuation, the auburn-haired scribe. Dalinars eyes lingered on Navani, drinking in her violet dress, her mature beauty. Shed recorded his most recent visions without complaint, and seemed to have forgiven him for throwing her out of his rooms so sharply. She never mocked him, never acted skeptical. He appreciated that. Should he thank her, or would she see that as an invitation? He averted his gaze from her, but found that he couldnt watch the dueling swordsmen without catching sight of her in the corner of his eye. So, instead, he glanced up into the sky, squinting against the afternoon sun. The sounds of metal hitting metal came from below. Behind him, several large snails clung to the rock, waiting for highstorm water. He had so many questions, so many uncertainties. He listened to The Way of Kings and worked to discover what Gavilars last words had meant. As if,