hunt. I wouldnt want you to lack for me. Ive done well so far. And yet, you were still Witless, Wit noted. Dalinar studied the black-clad man. What to make of Wit? He was clever. And yet, he was too free with his thoughts, as hed shown with Renarin earlier. This Wit had a strange air about him that Dalinar couldnt quite place. Brightlord Sadeas, Wit said, taking a sip of wine. Im terribly sorry to see you here. I should think, Sadeas said dryly, that you would be happy to see me. I seem always to provide you with such entertainment. That is unfortunately true, Wit said. Unfortunately? Yes. You see, Sadeas, you make it too easy. An uneducated, half-brained serving boy with a hangover could make mock of you. I am left with no need to exert myself, and your very nature makes mockery of my mockery. And so it is that through sheer stupidity you make me look incompetent. Really, Elhokar, Sadeas said. Must we put up with thiscreature? I like him, Elhokar said, smiling. He makes me laugh. At the expense of those who are loyal to you. Expense? Wit cut in. Sadeas, I dont believe youve ever paid me a sphere. Though no, please, dont offer. I cant take your money, as I know how many others you must pay to get what you wish of them. Sadeas flushed, but kept his temper. A whore joke, Wit? Is that the best you can manage? Wit shrugged. I point out truths when I see them, Brightlord Sadeas. Each man has his place. Mine is to make insults. Yours is to be in-sluts. Sadeas froze, then grew red-faced. You are a fool. If the Wit is a fool, then it is a sorry state for men. I shall offer you this, Sadeas. If you can speak, yet say nothing ridiculous, I will leave you alone for the rest of the week. Well, I think that shouldnt be too difficult. And yet you failed, Wit said, sighing. For you said I think and I can imagine nothing so ridiculous as the concept of you thinking. What of you, young Prince Renarin? Your father wishes me to leave you alone. Can you speak, yet say nothing ridiculous? Eyes turned toward Renarin, who stood just behind his brother. Renarin hesitated, eyes opening wide at the attention. Dalinar grew tense. Nothing ridiculous, Renarin said slowly. Wit laughed. Yes, I suppose that will satisfy me. Very clever. If Brightlord