Yet one group turned suddenly from peaceful friends to slaughtering warriors. Something set them off. Just as it did hundreds of years ago, during the days known as the Heraldic Epochs. There would be a period of peace, followed by an invasion of parshmen whofor reasons nobody understoodhad suddenly gone mad with anger and rage. This was what was behind mankinds fight to keep from being banished to Damnation. This was what nearly ended our civilization. This was the terrible, repeated cataclysm that was so frightening men began to speak of them as Desolations. Weve nurtured the parshmen. Weve integrated them into every part of our society. We depend on them, never realizing that weve harnessed a highstorm waiting to explode. The accounts from the Shattered Plains speak of these Parshendis ability to communicate among themselves, allowing them to sing their songs in unison when far apart. Their minds are connected, like spanreeds. Do you realize what that means? Shallan nodded. What would happen if every parshman on Roshar suddenly turned against his masters? Seeking freedom, or worsevengeance? Wed be devastated. Civilization as we know it could collapse. We have to do something! We are, Jasnah said. Were gathering facts, making certain we know what we think we know. And how many facts do we need? More. Many more. Jasnah glanced at the books. There are some things about the histories I dont yet understand. Tales of creatures fighting alongside the parshmen, beasts of stone that might be some kind of greatshell, and other oddities that I think may have truth to them. But weve exhausted what Kharbranth can offer. Are you still certain you want to delve into this? It is a heavy burden we will bear. You wont be returning to your estates for some time. Shallan bit her lip, thinking of her brothers. Youd let me go now, after what I know? I wont have you serving me while thinking of ways to escape. Jasnah sounded exhausted. I cant just abandon my brothers. Shallans insides twisted again. But this is bigger than them. Damnationits bigger than me or you or any of us. I have to help, Jasnah. I cant walk out on this. Ill find some other way to help my family. Good. Then go pack our things. Were leaving tomorrow on that ship I chartered for you. Were going to Jah Keved?