badthen the feast was canceled. Dalinar was glad for the outdoor location. Even with ornamentation, Soulcast buildings felt like caverns. The feast basin had been flooded, turning it into a shallow artificial lake. Circular dining platforms rose like small stone islands in the water. The elaborate miniature landscape had been fabricated by the kings Soulcasters, who had diverted the water from a nearby stream. It reminds me of Sela Tales, Dalinar thought as he crossed the first bridge. Hed visited that western region of Roshar during his youth. And the Purelake. There were five islands, and the railings of the bridges connecting them were done in scrollwork so fine that after each feast, the railings had to be stowed away lest a highstorm ruin them. Tonight, flowers floated in the slow current. Periodically, a miniature boatonly a handspan widesailed past, bearing an infused gemstone. Dalinar, Renarin, and Adolin stepped onto the first dining platform. One cup of blue, Dalinar said to his sons. After that, keep to the orange. Adolin sighed audibly. Couldnt we, just this once So long as you are of my house, you follow the Codes. My will is firm, Adolin. Fine, Adolin said. Come on, Renarin. The two broke off from Dalinar to remain on the first platform, where the younger lighteyes congregated. Dalinar crossed to the next island. This middle one was for the lesser lighteyes. To its left and right lay the segregated dining islandsmens island on the right, womens island on the left. On the three central ones, however, the genders mingled. Around him, the favored invitees took advantage of their kings hospitality. Soulcast food was inherently bland, but the kings lavish feasts always served imported spices and exotic meats. Dalinar could smell roasting pork on the air, and even chickens. It had been a long time since hed been served meat from one of the strange Shin flying creatures. A darkeyed servant passed, wearing a gauzy red robe and carrying a tray of orange crab legs. Dalinar continued across the island, weaving around groups of revelers. Most drank violet wine, the most intoxicating and flavorful of the colors. Almost no one was in battle attire. A few men wore tight, waist-length jackets, but many had dropped all pretense, choosing instead loose silk shirts with ruffled cuffs worn with matching slippers. The rich material glistened in the lamplight. These creatures of fashion shot glances at Dalinar, appraising him, weighing him. He could remember a time when he would have been swarmed by friends, acquaintancesand yes, even sycophantsat a feast like this. Now, none