Sigzil, Kaladin said, pointing. You know something about bows. How hard do you think it would be to hit that bridge with an arrow? Ive occasionally held a bow, Kaladin, but I would not call myself an expert. It shouldnt be too hard, Id imagine. The distance is what, fifty feet? Whats the point? Moash asked. Kaladin pulled out the pouch full of spheres, then raised an eyebrow at them. We tie the bag to the arrow, then launch it up so that it sticks to the bottom of the bridge. Then when were on a bridge run, Lopen and Dabbid can hang back to get a drink near that bridge up there. They reach under the wood and pull the arrow off. We get the spheres. Teft whistled. Clever. We could get all of the spheres, Moash said eagerly. Even the No, Kaladin said firmly. The lesser ones will be dangerous enough; people might begin wondering where bridgemen are getting so much money. He would have to buy his supplies from several different apothecaries to hide his influx of money. Moash looked crestfallen, but the other bridgemen were eager. Who wants to try? Kaladin asked. Maybe we should shoot a few practice shots first, then try with the bag. Sigzil? I dont know if I want this on me, Sigzil said. Maybe you should try, Teft. Teft rubbed his chin. Sure. I guess. How hard can it be? How hard? Rock asked suddenly. Kaladin glanced to the side. Rock stood at the back of the group, though his height made him easy to see. He had his arms folded. How hard, Teft? Rock continued. Fifty feet is not too far, but is not easy shot. And to do it with bag of heavy spheres tied to it? Ha! You also need to get arrow close to side of bridge, so Lopen can reach. If you miss with this thing, you could lose all spheres. And what if scouts near bridges above see arrow come from chasm? Will think it suspicious, eh? Kaladin eyed the Horneater. Is simple, hed said. Point away from selflet go Well, Kaladin said, watching Rock from the corner of his eye. I guess well just have to take that chance. Without these spheres, the wounded die. We could wait until the next bridge run, Teft said. Tie a rope to the bridge and toss it over, then tie the bag to it next time. Fifty feet of rope? Kaladin said flatly. It would draw enough attention to buy something like that. Nah, gancho, Lopen said. I have a cousin who works in a place that sells