kneeling. The cut wasnt that bad, though it probably pained the lad terribly. Getting out a bandage, Kaladin gave the battlefield one quick glance. Nearby, an enemy soldier stirred, but he was wounded badly enough that he wouldnt be trouble. Dallet and the rest of Kaladins team were clearing the area of enemy stragglers. In the near distance, an enemy lighteyes of high rank was rallying a small group of soldiers for a counterattack. He wore full plate. Not Shardplate, of course, but silvery steel. A rich man, judging from his horse. In a heartbeat, Kaladin was back to binding Cenns legthough he kept watch on the wounded enemy soldier from the corner of his eye. Kaladin, sir! Cenn exclaimed, pointing at the soldier who had stirred. Stormfather! Had the boy only just noticed the man? Had Kaladins battle senses ever been as dull as this boys? Dallet pushed the wounded enemy away. The rest of the squad made a ring formation around Kaladin, Dallet, and Cenn. Kaladin finished his binding, then stood, picking up his spear. Dallet handed him back his knives. Had me worried there, sir. Running off like that. I knew youd follow, Kaladin said. Raise the red banner. Cyn, Korater, youre going back with the boy. Dallet, hold here. Amarams line is bulging this direction. We should be safe soon. And you, sir? Dallet asked. In the near distance, the lighteyes had failed to rally enough troops. He was exposed, like a stone left behind by a stream running dry. A Shardbearer, Cenn said. Dallet snorted. No, thank the Stormfather. Just a lighteyed officer. Shardbearers are far too valuable to waste on a minor border dispute. Kaladin clenched his jaw, watching that lighteyed warrior. How mighty the man thought himself, sitting on his expensive horse, kept safe from the spearmen by his majestic armor and tall mount. He swung his mace, killing those around him. These skirmishes were caused by ones like him, greedy minor lighteyes who tried to steal land while the better men were away, fighting the Parshendi. His type had far, far fewer casualties than the spearmen, and so the lives under his command became cheap things. More and more over the last few years, each and every one of these petty lighteyes had come to represent Roshone in Kaladins eyes. Only Amaram himself stood apart. Amaram, who had treated Kaladins father so well, promising to keep Tien safe. Amaram, who always spoke with respect, even to lowly spearmen. He was like Dalinar and Sadeas. Not this riffraff.