on their refined servicethe very same air that Yalb had been mocking moments ago. I shall return, Brightness. He would be of the second nahn, a darkeyed citizen of very high rank. In Vorin belief, ones Callingthe task to which one dedicated ones lifewas of vital importance. Choosing a good profession and working hard at it was the best way to ensure good placement in the afterlife. The specific devotary that one visited for worship often had to do with the nature of ones chosen Calling. Shallan folded her arms, waiting. She had thought long about her own Calling. The obvious choice was her art, and she did so love sketching. But it was more than just the drawing that attracted herit was the study , the questions raised by observation. Why werent the skyeels afraid of people? What did haspers feed on? Why did a rat population thrive in one area, but fail in another? So shed chosen natural history instead. She longed to be a true scholar, to receive real instruction, to spend time on deep research and study. Was that part of why shed suggested this daring plan of seeking out Jasnah and becoming her ward? Perhaps. However, she needed to remain focused. Becoming Jasnahs wardand therefore studentwas only one step. She considered this as she idly walked up to a pillar, using her freehand to feel the polished stone. Like much of Rosharsave for certain coastal regions Kharbranth was built on raw, unbroken stone. The buildings outside had been set directly on the rock, and this one sliced into it. The pillar was granite, she guessed, though her geological knowledge was sketchy. The floor was covered with long, burnt-orange rugs. The material was dense, designed to look rich but bear heavy traffic. The broad, rectangular hallway had an old feel to it. One book shed read claimed that Kharbranth had been founded way back into the shadowdays, years before the Last Desolation. That would make it old indeed. Thousands of years old, created before the terrors of the Hierocracy, long beforeeventhe Recreance. Back when Voidbringers with bodies of stone were said to have stalked the land. Brightness? a voice asked. Shallan turned to find that the servant had returned. This way, Brightness. She nodded to the servant, and he led her quickly down the busy hallway. She went over how to present herself to Jasnah. The woman was a legend. Even Shallanliving in the remote estates of Jah Kevedhad heard of the Alethi kings brilliant, heretic sister. Jasnah was only thirty-four years old, yet many felt she would already have obtained the cap of a master scholar if it werent for her vocal denunciations of religion. Most specifically, she denounced the