The parshman lowered his arms reluctantly and let Teft and Moash pull him away. He seemed resigned. Parshmen were slow of thought. How much did Shen comprehend? Didnt you wish to find a bow? Sigzil asked, kneeling and slipping a horned Parshendi shortbow out from underneath a body. The bowstring is gone. Theres another in this fellows pouch, Maps said, pulling something out of another Parshendi corpses belt pouch. Might still be good. Kaladin accepted the weapon and string. Does anyone know how to use one of these? The bridgemen glanced at one another. Bows were useless for hunting most shellbeasts; slings worked far better. The bow was really only good for killing other men. Kaladin glanced at Teft, who shook his head. He hadnt been trained on a bow; neither had Kaladin. Is simple, Rock said, rolling over a Parshendi corpse, put arrow on string. Point away from self. Pull very hard. Let go. I doubt it will be that easy, Kaladin said. We barely have time to train the lads in the spear, Kaladin, Teft said. You mean to teach some of them the bow as well? And without a teacher who can use one himself? Kaladin didnt respond. He tucked the bow and string away in his bag, added a few arrows, then helped the others. An hour later, they marched through the chasms toward the ladder, their torches sputtering, dusk approaching. The darker it grew, the more unpleasant the chasms became. Shadows deepened, and distant soundswater dripping, rocks falling, wind callingtook on an ominous cast. Kaladin rounded a corner, and a group of many-legged cremlings scuttling along the wall and slipped into a fissure. Conversation was subdued, and Kaladin didnt take part. Occasionally, he glanced over his shoulder toward Shen. The silent parshman walked head down. Robbing the Parshendi corpses had seriously disturbed him. I can use that, Kaladin thought. But dare I? It would be a risk. A great one. He had already been sentenced once for upsetting the balance of the chasm battles. First the spheres, he thought. Getting the spheres out would mean he might be able to get out other items. Eventually he saw a shadow above, spanning the chasm. They had reached the first of the permanent bridges. Kaladin walked with the others a little further, until they reached a place where the chasm floor was closer to the top of the plateaus above. He stopped here. The bridgemen gathered around him.