bringing an arm up in a sweep. He knocked free the hands pushing him down, rocked and threw himself forward, lurching into the man directly in front of him. Kaladin rolled over him, tucking and coming up on his feet, free of his captives. He spun, flinging sweat from his brow. Where was his spear? He clutched for the knife at his belt. No knife. No spear. Storm you, Kaladin! That was Teft. Kaladin raised a hand to his breast, breathing deliberately, dispelling the strange dream. Bridge Four. He was with Bridge Four. The kings stormwardens had predicted a highstorm in the early morning hours. Its all right, he said to the cursing, twisting clump of bridgemen who had been holding him down. What were you doing? You tried to go out in the storm, Moash said accusingly, extricating himself. The only light was a single diamond sphere one of the men had set in the corner. Ha! Rock added, standing up and brushing himself off. Had the door open to the rain, staring out, as if youd been hit on the head with stone. We had to pull you back. Is not good for you to spend another two weeks sick in bed, eh? Kaladin calmed himself. The riddensthe quiet rainfall at the trailing end of a highstormcontinued outside, drops sprinkling the roof. You wouldnt wake up, Sigzil said. Kaladin glanced at the Azish man, sitting with his back to the stone wall. He hadnt tried to hold Kaladin down. You were having some kind of fever dream. I feel just fine, Kaladin said. That wasnt quite true; his head ached and he was exhausted. He took a deep breath and threw back his shoulders, trying to force the fatigue away. The sphere in the corner flickered. Then its light faded away, leaving them in darkness. Storm it! Moash muttered. That eel Gaz. Hes been giving us dun spheres again. Kaladin crossed the pitch-black barrack, stepping carefully. His headache faded away as he felt for the door. He pushed it open, letting in the faint light of an overcast morning. The winds were weak, but the rain still fell. He stepped out, and was shortly soaked through. The other bridgemen followed him out, and Rock tossed Kaladin a small chunk of soap. Like most of the others, Kaladin wore only his loincloth, and he lathered himself up in the cold downpour. The soap smelled of oil and was gritty with the sand suspended in it. No sweet, soft soaps for