servants do not react to the Parshendi at all, showing no interest in emulating them. This is reassuring. The question about music may have to do with the humming and chanting the Parshendi often do. They have an uncanny ability to make music together. I swear that I have left one Parshendi singing to himself, then soon passed another out of earshot of the first, yet singing the very same songeerily near to the other in tempo, tune, and lyric. Their favored instrument is the drum. They are crudely made, with handprints of paint marking the sides. This matches their simple buildings, which they construct of crem and stone. They build them in the craterlike rock formations here at the edge of the Shattered Plains. I ask Klade if they worry about highstorms, but he just laughs. Why worry? If the buildings blow down, we can build them again, can we not? On the other side of the alcove, Jasnahs book rustled as she turned a page. Shallan set aside her own volume, then picked through the books on the desk. Her philosophy training done for the time being, she had returned to her study of King Gavilars murder. She slid a small volume out from the bottom of the stack: a record dictated by Stormwarden Matain, one of the scholars who had accompanied the king. Shallan flipped through the pages, searching for a specific passage. It was a description of the very first Parshendi hunting party they encountered. It happened after we set up beside a deep river in a heavily wooded area. It was an ideal location for a long-term camp, as the dense cobwood trees would protect against highstorm winds, and the rivers gorge eliminated the risk of flooding. His Majesty wisely took my advice, sending scouting parties both upriver and down. Highprince Dalinars scouting party was the first to encounter the strange, untamed parshmen. When he returned to camp with his story, Ilike many othersrefused to believe his claims. Surely Brightlord Dalinar had simply run across the parshman servants of another expedition like our own. Once they visited our camp the next day, their reality could no longer be denied. There were ten of themparshmen to be sure, but bigger than the familiar ones. Some had skin marbled black and red, and others were marbled white and red, as is more common in Alethkar. They carried magnificent weapons, the bright steel etched with complex decorations, but wore simple clothing of woven narbin cloth. Before long, His Majesty became fascinated by these strange parshmen, insisting that I begin a study of their language and society. Ill admit that my original intent was to expose them as a hoax of some kind. The more we learned,