Something was wrong. Instinctively, Szeth Lashed himself to the ceiling. From his viewpoint, the room flipped, and the floor was now the ceiling. Two figures burst out from beneath the kings table. Two men in Plate, carrying Shardblades, swinging. Twisting in the air, Szeth evaded their swings, then Lashed himself back to the floor, landing on the kings table just as the king summoned a Shardblade. So the rumors were true. The king struck, but Szeth jumped backward, landing beyond the Shardbearers. Outside, he could hear footfalls. Szeth glanced to see men pouring into the room. The newcomers carried distinctive, diamond-shaped shields. Half- shards. Szeth had heard of the new fabrials, capable of stopping a Shardblade. You think I didnt know you were coming? the king yelled at him. After you killed three of my highprinces? Were ready for you, assassin. He lifted something from beneath the table. Another of those half-shard shields. They were made of metal imbedded with a gemstone hidden at the back. You are a fool, Szeth said, Stormlight leaking from his mouth. Why? the king called. You think I should have run? No, Szeth replied, meeting his eyes. Because you set a trap for me during a feast. And now I can blame you for their deaths. The soldiers fanned out through the room while the two fully armored Shardbearers stepped toward him, Blades out. The king smiled. So let it be, Szeth said, breathing deeply, sucking in the Stormlight of the many gemstones tied in the pouches at his waist. The Light began to rage within him, like a highstorm in his chest, burning and screaming. He breathed in more than hed ever held before, holding it until he was barely able to keep the Stormlight from ripping him apart. Were those still tears in his eyes? Would that they could hide his crimes. He yanked the strap free at his waist, releasing his belt and the heavy spheres. Then he dropped his Shardblade. His opponents froze in shock as his Blade vanished to mist. Who would drop a Shardblade in the middle of a battle? It defied reason. And so did Szeth. You are a work of art, Szeth-son-Neturo. A god. It was time to see. The soldiers and Shardbearers charged. Mere heartbeats before they reached him, Szeth spun into motion, liquid tempest in his veins. He dodged between the initial sword strikes, spinning into the midst of the soldiers. Holding this much Stormlight made it easier to infuse things; the light wanted out, and it pushed against his skin. In this state, the Shardblade would only be a distraction. Szeth