Well, not so actively. But its the right idea. She sat thoughtfully for a time longer. Kaladin, she finally said. Why do men lie? I can see what lies are, but I dont know why people do it. Lots of reasons, Kaladin said, wiping the sweat from his brow with his free hand, then using it to steady the plank. Is it madness? I dont know if Id say that. Everyone does it. So maybe youre all a little mad. He chuckled. Yes, perhaps. But if everyone does it, she said, leaning her head on her knee, then the one who doesnt would be the one who is mad, right? Isnt that what you said earlier? Well, I guess. But I dont think theres a person out there who hasnt ever lied. Dalinar. Who? The kings uncle, Syl said. Everyone says he never lies. Your bridgemen even talk about it sometimes. Thats right. The Blackthorn. Kaladin had heard of him, even in his youth. Hes a lighteyes. That means he lies. But Theyre all the same, Syl. The more noble they look, the more corrupt they are inside. Its all an act. He fell quiet, surprised at the vehemence of his bitterness. Storm you, Amaram. You did this to me. Hed been burned too often to trust the flame. I dont think men were always this way, she said absently, getting a far-off look in her face. I Kaladin waited for her to continue, but she didnt. He passed Bridge Four again; many of the men relaxed, backs to the barrack wall, waiting for the afternoon shade to cover them. They rarely waited inside. Perhaps staying inside all day was too gloomy, even for bridgemen. Syl? he finally prompted. Were you going to say something? It seems Ive heard men talk about times when there were no lies. There are stories, Kaladin said, about the times of the Heraldic Epochs, when men were bound by honor. But youll always find people telling stories about supposedly better days. You watch. A man joins a new team of soldiers, and the first thing hell do is talk about how wonderful his old team was. We remember the good times and the bad ones, forgetting that most times are neither good nor bad. They just are.