inside them, citizen soldiers near the middle, lighteyed officers at the very center. They were camped in a series of enormous craterlike rock formations, only the sides were more irregular, more jagged. Like broken eggshells. Kaladin had left an army much like this eight months ago, though Amarams force had been much smaller. This one covered miles of stone, stretching far both north and south. A thousand banners bearing a thousand different family glyphpairs flapped proudly in the air. There were some tentsmainly on the outside of the armiesbut most of the troops were housed in large stone barracks. That meant Soulcasters. That encampment directly ahead of them flew a banner Kaladin had seen in books. Deep blue with white glyphs khokh and linil , stylized and painted as a sword standing before a crown. House Kholin. The kings house. Daunted, Kaladin looked beyond the armies. The landscape to the east was as hed heard it described in a dozen different stories detailing the kings campaign against the Parshendi betrayers. It was an enormous riven plain of rockso wide he couldnt see the other sidethat was split and cut by sheer chasms, crevasses twenty or thirty feet wide. They were so deep that they disappeared into darkness and formed a jagged mosaic of uneven plateaus. Some large, others tiny. The expansive plain looked like a platter that had been broken, its pieces then reassembled with small gaps between the fragments. The Shattered Plains, Kaladin whispered. What? the windspren asked. Whats wrong? Kaladin shook his head, bemused. I spent years trying to get to this place. Its what Tien wanted, in the end at least. To come here, fight in the kings army And now Kaladin was here. Finally. Accidentally. He felt like laughing at the absurdity. I should have realized, he thought. I should have known. We werent ever heading toward the coast and its cities. We were heading here. To war. This place would be subject to Alethi law and rules. Hed expected that Tvlakv would want to avoid such things. But here, hed probably also find the best prices. The Shattered Plains? one of the slaves said. Really? Others crowded around, peering out. In their sudden excitement, they seemed to forget their fear of Kaladin. It is the Shattered Plains! another man said. Thats the kings army! Perhaps well find justice here, another said. I hear the kings house hold servants live as well as the finest merchants, said another. His slaves have to be better off too. Well be in Vorin lands; well