He helped lift the bridge into the air. They were probably using a very light wood for the bridges, but the thing was still storms-cursed heavy. Kaladin grunted as he struggled with the weight, hoisting the bridge up high and then stepping underneath. Men dashed in to fill the middle slots down the length of the structure, and slowly they all set the bridge down on their shoulders. At least there were rods on the bottom to use as handholds. The other men had pads on the shoulders of their vests to cushion the weight and adjust their height to fit the supports. Kaladin hadnt been given a vest, so the wooden supports dug directly into his skin. He couldnt see a thing; there was an indentation for his head, but wood cut off his view to all sides. The men at the edges had better views; he suspected those spots were more coveted. The wood smelled of oil and sweat. Go! Gaz said from outside, voice muffled. Kaladin grunted as the crew broke into a jog. He couldnt see where he was going, and struggled to keep from tripping as the bridge crew marched down the eastern slope to the Shattered Plains. Soon, Kaladin was sweating and cursing under his breath, the wood rubbing and digging into the skin on his shoulders. He was already starting to bleed. Poor fool, a voice said from the side. Kaladin glanced to the right, but the wooden handholds obstructed his view. Are you Kaladin puffed. Are you talking to me? You shouldnt have insulted Gaz, the man said. His voice sounded hollow. He sometimes lets new men run in an outside row. Sometimes. Kaladin tried to respond, but he was already gasping for breath. Hed thought himself in better shape than this, but hed spent eight months being fed slop, being beaten, and waiting out highstorms in leaking cellars, muddy barns, or cages. He was hardly the same man anymore. Breathe in and out deeply, said the muffled voice. Focus on the steps. Count them. It helps. Kaladin followed the advice. He could hear other bridge crews running nearby. Behind them came the familiar sounds of men marching and hoofbeats on the stone. They were being followed by an army. Below, rockbuds and small shalebark ridges grew from the stone, tripping him. The landscape of the Shattered Plains appeared to be broken, uneven, and rent, covered with outcroppings and shelves of rock. That explained why they didnt use wheels on the bridgesporters were probably much faster over such rough terrain. Soon, his feet were ragged and battered. Couldnt they have given him shoes? He set his jaw against the agony and kept on going. Just another job. He