More often lately, it seems, Teft said. He held his hand to his arm, where hed hastily wrapped a bandage around an arrow wound. He wouldnt be carrying a bridge anytime soon. Mapss death and Ariks death left them with only twenty-six members now. It was barely enough to carry a bridge. The greater heaviness was very noticeable, and they had difficulty keeping up with the other bridge crews. A few more losses, and theyd be in serious trouble. I should have been faster, Kaladin thought, looking down at Maps splayed open, his insides exposed for the sun to dry. The arrowhead had pierced his lung and lodged in his spine. Could Lirin have saved him? If Kaladin had studied in Kharbranth as his father had wished, would he have learned enoughknown enoughto prevent deaths like this? This happens sometimes, son. Kaladin raised shaking bloody hands to his face, gripping his head, as memory consumed him. A young girl, a cracked head, a broken leg, an angry father. Despair, hate, loss, frustration, horror. How could any man live this way? To be a surgeon, to live knowing that you would be too weak to save some? When other men failed, a field of crops got worms in them. When a surgeon failed, someone died. You have to learn when to care. As if he could choose. Banish it, like snuffing a lantern. Kaladin bowed beneath the weight. I should have saved him, I should have saved him, I should have saved him. Maps, Dunny, Amark, Goshel, Dallet, Nalma. Tien. Kaladin. Syls voice. Be strong. If I were strong, he hissed, they would live. The other bridgemen still need you. You promised them, Kaladin. You gave your oath. Kaladin looked up. The bridgemen seemed anxious and worried. There were only eight of them; Kaladin had sent the others to look for fallen bridgemen from other crews. Theyd found three initially, minor wounds that Skar could care for. No runners had come for him. Either the bridge crews had no other wounded, or those wounded were beyond help. Maybe he should have gone to look, just in case. Butnumbhe could not face yet another dying man he could not save. He stumbled to his feet and walked away from the corpse. He stepped up to the chasm and forced himself to fall into the old stance Tukks had taught him. Feet apart, hands behind his back, clasping forearms. Straight-backed, staring forward. The familiarity brought him strength.