struggle to keep his temper. Im not saying that. Even a potential threat to your life worries me very much. But I do suggest that you avoid leaping to conclusions. Adolin has pointed out that this would be a terribly clumsy way to try to kill you. A fall from horseback isnt a serious threat to a man wearing Plate. Yes, but during a hunt? Elhokar said. Perhaps they wanted the chasmfiend to kill me. We werent supposed to be in danger from the hunt, Dalinar said. We were supposed to pelt the greatshell from a distance, then ride up and butcher it. Elhokar narrowed his eyes, looking at Dalinar, then at Adolin. It was almost as if the king were suspicious of them . The look was gone in a second. Had Adolin imagined it? Stormfather! he thought. From behind, Vamah began calling to the king. Elhokar glanced at him and nodded. This isnt over, Uncle, he said to Dalinar. Look into that strap. I will. The king handed the strap back, then left, armor clinking. Father, Adolin said immediately, did you see Ill speak to him about it, Dalinar said. Sometime when he isnt so worked up. But I will speak to him, Adolin. You look into that strap. And go gather your men. He nodded toward something in the distant west. I think I see that bridge crew coming. Finally , Adolin thought, following his gaze. A small group of figures was crossing the plateau in the distance, bearing Dalinars banner and leading a bridge crew carrying one of Sadeass mobile bridges. Theyd sent for one of those, as they were faster than Dalinars larger, chull-pulled bridges. Adolin hurried off to give the orders, though he found himself distracted by his fathers words, Gavilars final message, and now the kings look of distrust. It seemed he would have plenty to preoccupy his mind on the long ride back to the camps. Dalinar watched Adolin rush away to do as ordered. The lads breastplate still bore a web of cracks, though it had stopped leaking Stormlight. With time, the armor would repair itself. It could reform even if it was completely shattered. The lad liked to complain, but he was as good a son as a man could ask for.