assistants. They told me we could borrow some. Fill as many as you can, then catch up down below. Sure, gancho, Lopen said. Bridge up! Kaladin shouted, moving into position at the front. Shoulder carry! Bridge Four moved. While some of the other bridge crews were crowded around their barracks, Kaladins team charged across the lumberyard. They were first down the incline, and reached the first permanent bridge before the army even formed up. There, Kaladin ordered them to put their bridge down and wait. Shortly thereafter, Lopen trotted down the hillsideand, surprisingly, Dabbid and Hobber were with him. They couldnt move fast, not with Hobbers limp, but they had constructed a sort of litter with a tarp and two lengths of wood. Piled into the middle of it were a good twenty waterskins. They trotted up to the bridge team. Whats this? Kaladin said. You told me to bring whatever I could carry, gon, Lopen said. Well, we got this thing from the carpenters. They use it to carry pieces of wood, they said, and they werent using it so we took it and now were here. Aint that right, moolie? He said that last to Dabbid, who just nodded. Moolie? Kaladin asked. Means mute, Lopen said, shrugging. Cuz he doesnt seem to talk much, you see. I see. Well, good job. Bridge Four, back in position. Here comes the rest of the army. The next few hours were what they had grown to expect from bridge runs. Grueling conditions, carrying the heavy bridge across plateaus. The water proved a huge help. The army occasionally watered the bridgemen during runs, but never as often as the men needed it. Being able to take a drink after crossing each plateau was as good as having a half-dozen more men. But the real difference came from the practice. Bridge Fours men no longer fell exhausted each time they set a bridge down. The work was still difficult, but their bodies were ready for it. Kaladin caught more than a few glances of surprise or envy from the other bridge crews as his men laughed and joked instead of collapsing. Running a bridge once a week or soas the other men did just wasnt enough. An extra meal each night combined with training had built up his mens muscles and prepared them to work. The march was a long one, as long as Kaladin had ever made. They traveled eastward for hours. That was a bad sign. When they aimed for closer plateaus, they often got there before the Parshendi. But this far out they were racing just to