pled that his men needed time to find carapace, and Hashalnot knowing any betterhad reduced the scavenging quota. She was already pretendingquite smoothlythat the armor had been her idea the entire time, and was ignoring the question of where it had come from in the first place. When she met Kaladins eyes, however, he saw worry. What else would he try? So far, she hadnt dared remove him. Not while he brought her so much praise from Sadeas. How did an apprentice armorer end up as a bridgeman anyway? Kaladin asked as Leyten settled back down to work. He was a thick-armed man, stout and oval-faced with light hair. Craftsmen dont usually get thrown away. Leyten shrugged. When a piece of armor breaks and a lighteyes takes an arrow in the shoulder, someone has to take the blame. Im convinced my master keeps an extra apprentice especially for those kinds of situation. Well, his loss is our good fortune. Youre going to keep us alive. Ill do my best, sir. He smiled. Cant do much worse on the armor than you did yourself, though. Its amazing that breastplate didnt fall off halfway through! Kaladin patted the bridgeman on the shoulder, then left him to his work, surrounded by a small ring of topaz chips; Kaladin had gotten permission to bring them, explaining his men needed light to work on the armor. Nearby, Lopen, Rock, and Dabbid were returning with another load of salvage. Syl zipped ahead, leading them. Kaladin walked down the chasm, a garnet sphere looped in a small leather carrier at his belt for light. The chasm branched here, making a large triangular intersectiona perfect place for spear training. Wide enough to give the men room to practice, yet far enough from any permanent bridges that scouts werent likely to hear echoes. Kaladin gave the initial instructions each day, then let Teft lead the practice. The men worked by sphere light, small piles of diamond chips at the corners of the intersection, barely enough to see by. Never thought Id envy those days practicing beneath the hot sun back in Amarams army, he thought. He walked up to gap-toothed Hobber and corrected his stance, then showed him how to set his weight behind his spear thrusts. The bridgemen were progressing quickly, and the fundamentals were proving their merit. Some were training with the spear and the shield, practicing stances where they held lighter spears up beside the head with the shield raised. The most skilled were Skar and Moash. In fact, Moash was surprisingly good. Kaladin walked to the side, watching the hawk-faced man. He was focused, eyes intense, jaw set. He moved in attack after attack, the dozen spheres giving him an equal number of shadows.