Jasnah shook her head to herself, though Shallan could not guess what thoughts had caused the unconscious gesture. Finally, she turned back to Shallan and waved toward the large, gobletlike bowl on the desk. It held a dozen of Shallans spheres. Shallan raised her freehand to her lips in shock. Shed completely forgotten the money. She bowed to Jasnah in thanks, then hurriedly collected the spheres. Brightness, lest I forget, I should mention that an ardentBrother Kabsal came to see you while I waited here. He wished me to pass on his desire to speak with you. Not surprising, Jasnah said. You seem surprised about the spheres, Miss Davar. I assumed that you were waiting outside to recover them. Is that not why you were so close? No, Brightness. I was just settling my nerves. Ah. Shallan bit her lip. The princess appeared to have gotten past her initial tirade. PerhapsBrightness, Shallan said, cringing at her brashness, what did you think of my letter? Letter? I Shallan glanced at the desk. Beneath that stack of books, Brightness. A servant quickly moved aside the stack of books; the parshman must have set it on the paper without noticing. Jasnah picked up the letter, raising an eyebrow, and Shallan hurriedly undid her satchel and placed the spheres in her money pouch. Then she cursed herself for being so quick, as now she had nothing to do but stand and wait for Jasnah to finish reading. This is true? Jasnah looking up from the paper. You are self-trained? Yes, Brightness. That is remarkable. Thank you, Brightness. And this letter was a clever maneuver. You correctly assumed that I would respond to a written plea. This shows me your skill with words, and the rhetoric of the letter gives proof that you can think logically and make a good argument. Thank you, Brightness, Shallan said, feeling another surge of hope, mixed with fatigue. Her emotions had been jerked back and forth like a rope being used for a tugging contest. You should have left the note for me, and withdrawn before I returned. But then the note would have been lost beneath that stack of books. Jasnah raised an eyebrow at her, as if to show that she did not appreciate being corrected. Very well. The context of a persons life is important. Your circumstances do not excuse your lack of education in history and philosophy,