some arrogant quest to become overlord of the entire army! Dalinar gritted his teeth. I do this for you, Elhokar. Elhokar met his eyes for a moment, and his blue eyes flashed with suspicion again, as they had the week before. Blood of my fathers! Dalinar thought. Hes getting worse. Elhokars expression softened a moment later, and he seemed to relax. Whatever hed seen in Dalinars eyes had comforted him. I know you try for the best, Uncle, Elhokar said. But you have to admit that youve been erratic lately. The way you react to storms, your infatuation with my fathers last words  Im trying to understand him. He grew weak at the end, Elhokar said. Everyone knows it. I wont repeat his mistakes, and you should avoid them as wellrather than listening to a book that claims that lighteyes should be the slaves of the darkeyes. Thats not what it says, Dalinar said. It has been misinterpreted. Its mostly just a collection of stories which teach that a leader should serve those he leads. Bah. It was written by the Lost Radiants! They didnt write it. It was their inspiration. Nohadon, an ordinary man, was its author. Elhokar glanced at him, raising an eyebrow. See, it seemed to say. You defend it. You are growing weak, Uncle. I will not exploit that weakness. But others will. I am not getting weak. Yet again, Dalinar forced himself to be calm. This conversation has gone off the path. The highprinces need a single leader to force them to work together. I vow that if you name me Highprince of War, I will see you protected. As you saw my father protected? Dalinars mouth snapped shut. Elhokar turned away. I should not have said that. It was uncalled for. No, Dalinar said. No, it was one of the truest things you have said to me, Elhokar. Perhaps you are right to distrust my protection. Elhokar glanced at him, curious. Why do you react that way? What way? Once, if someone had said that to you, youd have summoned your Blade and demanded a duel! Now you agree with them instead. I My father started refusing duels, near the end. Elhokar tapped on the railing. I see why you feel the need for a Highprince of War, and you may have