fall to their deaths into the chasms. Sigzil also guessed that their bodies were more dense than human ones, and didnt float or wash away as easily. Kaladin rolled the body onto its side, and the action elicited a sudden hiss from the back of the group of bridgemen. Kaladin turned to see Shen pushing forward in an uncharacteristic display of passion. Teft moved quickly, grabbing Shen from behind, placing him in a choke hold. The other bridgemen stood, aghast, though several fell into their stances by reflex. Shen struggled weakly against Tefts grip. The parshman looked different from his dead cousins; close together, the differences were much more obvious. Shenlike most parshmenwas short and a little plump. Stout, strong, but not threatening. The corpse at Kaladins feet, however, was muscled and built like a Horneater, easily as tall as Kaladin and far broader at the shoulders. While both had the marbled skin, the Parshendi had those strange, deep-red growths of armor on the head, chest, arms, and legs. Let him go, Kaladin said, curious. Teft glanced at him, then reluctantly did as commanded. Shen scrambled over the uneven ground and gently, but firmly, pushed Kaladin away from the corpse. Shen stood back, as if protecting it from Kaladin. This thing, Rock noted, stepping up beside Kaladin, he has done it before. When Lopen and I take him scavenging. Hes protective of the Parshendi bodies, gancho, Lopen added. Like hed stab you a hundred times for moving one, sure. Theyre all like that, Sigzil said from behind. Kaladin turned, raising an eyebrow. Parshman workers, Sigzil explained. Theyre allowed to care for their own dead; its one of the few things they seem passionate about. They grow irate if anyone else handles the bodies. They wrap them in linen and carry them out into the wilderness and leave them on slabs of stone. Kaladin regarded Shen. I wonder. Scavenge from the Parshendi, Kaladin said to his men. Teft, youll probably have to hold Shen the whole time. I cant have him trying to stop us. Teft shot Kaladin a suffering glance; he still thought they should set Shen at the front of the bridge and let him die. But he did as told, pushing Shen away and getting Moashs help to hold him. And men, Kaladin noted. be respectful of the dead. Theyre Parshendi! Leyten objected. I know, Kaladin said. But it bothers Shen. Hes one of us, so lets keep his irritation to a minimum.