menacing in the face and larger at the shoulders, and I dont see its second set of foreclawsbut someone was obviously trying to draw one of them. Yes, Dalinar said, rubbing his chin. This is a depiction from one of the books here, Danlan read. My new ward is quite skilled at drawing, and so I had her reproduce it for you. Tell me. Does it remind you of anything? A new ward? Dalinar thought. It had been years since Jasnah had taken one. She always said she didnt have the time. This pictures of a chasmfiend, Dalinar said. Danlan wrote the words. A moment later, the reply came. The book describes this as a picture of a Voidbringer. Danlan frowned, cocking her head. The book is a copy of a text originally written in the years before the Recreance. However, the illustrations are copied from another text, even older. In fact, some think that picture was drawn only two or three generations after the Heralds departed. Adolin whistled softly. That would make it very old indeed. So far as Dalinar understood, they had few pieces of art or writing dating from the shadowdays, The Way of Kings being one of the oldest, and the only complete text. And even it had survived only in translation; they had no copies in the original tongue. Before you jump to conclusions, Danlan read, Im not implying that the Voidbringers were the same thing as chasmfiends. I believe that the ancient artist didnt know what a Voidbringer looked like, and so she drew the most horrific thing she knew of. But how did the original artist know what a chasmfiend looked like? Dalinar thought. We only just discovered the Shattered Plains But of course. Though the Unclaimed Hills were now empty, they had once been an inhabited kingdom. Someone in the past had known about chasmfiends, known them well enough to draw one and label it a Voidbringer. I must go now, Jasnah said via Danlan. Care for my brother in my absence, Uncle. Jasnah, Dalinar sent, choosing his words very carefully. Things are difficult here. The storm begins to blow unchecked, and the building shakes and moans. You may soon hear news that shocks you. It would be very nice if you could return and lend your aid. He waited quietly for the reply, the spanreed scratching. I should like to promise a date when I will come. Dalinar could almost hear Jasnahs calm, cool voice. But I cannot estimate when my research will be completed. This is very important, Jasnah, Dalinar said. Please reconsider.