Always keep a glowing sphere in your pocket, Kaladin said. Its good luck. You certain you dont want a love potion? If you get caught in the dark, youll have light, Kaladin said tersely. Besides, as you said, most people arent as trusting as you. Reluctantly, the apothecary traded the infused sphere for the dead one though he did check it with the loupe to be certain. A dun sphere was worth just as much as an infused one; all you had to do was leave it out in a highstorm, and it would recharge and give off light for a week or so. Kaladin pocketed the infused sphere and picked up his purchase. He nodded farewell to the apothecary, and Syl joined him as he stepped out into the camps street. Hed spent some of the afternoon listening to soldiers at the mess hall, and hed learned some things about the warcamps. Things he should have learned weeks ago, but had been too despondent to care about. He now knew about the chrysalises on the plateaus, the gemhearts they contained, and the competition between the highprinces. He understood why Sadeas pushed his men so hard, and he was beginning to see why Sadeas turned around if they got to the plateau later than another army. That wasnt very common. More often, Sadeas arrived first, and the other Alethi armies that came up behind them had to turn back. The warcamps were enormous. All told, there were over a hundred thousand troops in the various Alethi camps, many times the population of Hearthstone. And that wasnt counting the civilians. A mobile warcamp attracted a large array of camp followers; stationary warcamps like these on the Shattered Plains brought even more. Each of the ten warcamps filled its own crater, and was filled with an incongruous mix of Soulcast buildings, shanties, and tents. Some merchants, like the apothecary, had the money to build a wooden structure. Those who lived in tents took them down for storms, then paid for shelter elsewhere. Even within the crater, the stormwinds were strong, particularly where the outer wall was low or broken. Some placeslike the lumberyardwere completely exposed. The street bustled with the usual crowd. Women in skirts and blousesthe wives, sisters, or daughters of the soldiers, merchants, or craftsmen. Workers in trousers or overalls. A large number of soldiers in leathers, carrying spear and shield. All were Sadeass men. Soldiers of one camp didnt mix with those of another, and you stayed away from another brightlords crater unless you had business there. Kaladin shook his head in dismay. What? Syl asked, settling on his shoulder.