Dalinars relationship with Sadeas. Their barbs were genuine; one needed only look in their eyes to see that the men could barely stand one another. And yet, here they were, apparently planning and executing a joint manipulation of another highprince. Ill protect the boy my way, Sadeas said. You do it your way. But dont complain to me about his paranoia when you insist on wearing your uniform to bed, just in case the Parshendi suddenly decideagainst all reason and precedentto attack the warcamps. I dont know where he gets it indeed! Lets go, Adolin, Dalinar said, turning to stride away. Adolin followed. Dalinar, Sadeas called from behind. Dalinar hesitated, looking back. Have you found it yet? Sadeas asked. Why he wrote what he did? Dalinar shook his head. Youre not going to find the answer, Sadeas said. Its a foolish quest, old friend. One thats tearing you apart. I know what happens to you during storms. Your mind is unraveling because of all this stress you put upon yourself. Dalinar returned to walking away. Adolin hurried after him. What had that last part been about? Why he wrote? Men didnt write. Adolin opened his mouth to ask, but he could sense his fathers mood. This was not a time to prod him. He walked with Dalinar up to a small rock hill on the plateau. They picked their way up it to the top, and from there looked out at the fallen chasmfiend. Dalinars men continued harvesting its meat and carapace. He and his father stood there for a time, Adolin brimming with questions, yet unable to find a way to phrase them. Eventually, Dalinar spoke. Have I ever told you what Gavilars final words to me were? You havent. Ive always wondered about that night. Brother, follow the Codes tonight. There is something strange upon the winds. Thats what he said to me, the last thing he told me just before we began the treaty-signing celebration. I didnt realize that Uncle Gavilar followed the Codes. Hes the one who first showed them to me. He found them as a relic of old Alethkar, back when wed first been united. He began following them shortly before he died. Dalinar grew hesitant. Those were odd days, son. Jasnah and I werent sure what to think of the changes in Gavilar. At the time, I thought the Codes foolishness, even the one that commanded an officer to avoid strong drink during times of war. Especially that one. His voice grew even softer. I was unconscious on the ground when Gavilar was murdered. I can remember voices,