His foreigners were in the corner, at a table only they would choosethe one that was raised up an extra bit, with footrests so that the outsiders wouldnt have to get their toes wet. Nu Ralik, what fools! he thought with amusement. Inside out of the sun, wearing shirts against its warmth, feet out of the tide. No wonder their thoughts are so odd. He set his buckets down, nodding to Maib. She eyed him. Good fishing? Terrible. Ah well, your soup is free today, Ishikk. To make up for Vun Makaks cursing. Thanks much kindly, he said, taking a steaming bowl from her. She smiled. Now he owed her. Enough bowls, and hed be forced to wed her. Theres a kolgril in the bucket for you, he noted. Caught it early this morning. Her stout face grew uncertain. A kolgril was a very lucky fish. Cured aching joints for a good month after you ate it, and sometimes let you see when friends were going to visit by letting you read the shapes of the clouds. Maib had quite a fondness for them, on account of the finger aches Nu Ralik had sent her. One kolgril would be two weeks of soup, and would put her in debt to him . Vun Makak eye you, she muttered in annoyance walking over to check. Thats one all right. How am I ever going to catch you, man? Im a fisher, Maib, he said, taking a slurp of his soupthe bowl was shaped for easy slurping. Hard to catch a fisher. You know that. He chuckled to himself, walking up to his foreigners as she plucked out the kolgril. There were three of them. Two were dark-skinned Makabaki, though they were the strangest Makabaki hed ever seen. One was thick limbed where most of his kind were small and fine-boned, and he had a completely bald head. The other was taller, with short dark hair, lean muscles, and broad shoulders. In his head, Ishikk called them Grump and Blunt, on account of their personalities. The third man had light tan skin, like an Alethi. He didnt seem quite right either, though. The eyes were the wrong shape, and his accent was certainly not Alethi. He spoke the Selay language worse than the other two, and usually stayed quiet. He seemed thoughtful, though. Ishikk called him Thinker. Wonder how he earned that scar across his scalp, Ishikk thought. Life outside the Purelake was very dangerous. Lots of wars, particularly to the east. You are late, traveler, said tall, stiff Blunt. He had the build and air of a soldier, though none of the three carried weapons. Ishikk frowned, sitting and reluctantly pulling his feet out of the water. Isnt it warli-day?