man in majestic, burnished red Shardplate. It was distinct from the one other Kaladin had seeneach suit was said to be an individual work of artbut it had the same feel . Ornate, interlocking, topped by a beautiful helm with an open visor. The armor felt alien somehow. It had been crafted in another epoch, a time when gods had walked Roshar. Is that the king? Kaladin asked. The leathery bridgeman laughed tiredly. We could only wish. Kaladin turned toward him, frowning. If that were the king, the bridgeman said, then that would mean we were in Brightlord Dalinars army. The name was vaguely familiar to Kaladin. Hes a highprince, right? The kings uncle? Aye. The best of men, the most honorable Shardbearer in the kings army. They say hes never broken his word. Kaladin sniffed in disdain. Much the same had been said about Amaram. You should wish to be in Highprince Dalinars force, lad, the older man said. He doesnt use bridge crews. Not like these, at least. All right, you cremlings! Gaz bellowed. On your feet! The bridgemen groaned, stumbling upright. Kaladin sighed. The brief rest had been just enough to show how exhausted he was. Ill be glad to get back, he muttered. Back? the leathery bridgeman said. We arent turning around? His friend chuckled wryly. Lad, we arent nearly there yet. Be glad we arent. Arriving is the worst part. And so the nightmare began its second phase. They crossed the bridge, pulled it over behind them, then lifted it up on sore shoulders once more. They jogged across the plateau. At the other side, they lowered the bridge again to span another chasm. The army crossed, then it was back to carrying the bridge again. They repeated this a good dozen times. They did get to rest between carries, but Kaladin was so sore and overworked that the brief respites werent enough. He barely caught his breath each time before being forced to pick up the bridge again. They were expected to be quick about it. The bridgemen got to rest while the army crossed, but they had to make up the time by jogging across the plateaus passing the ranks of soldiersso that they could arrive at the next chasm before the army. At one point, his leathery-faced friend warned him that if they didnt