Brightlord Sadeas refused to let him do it, Gaz said. What? Had he misjudged Sadeas? But no. This was part of the act. Brightlord Sadeas, Gaz said grimly, told Lamaril to let you keep the soldiersbut to forbid them food or pay while theyre unable to work. Said it would show why hes forced to leave bridgemen behind. That cremling, Kaladin muttered. Gaz paled. Hush. Thats the highprince himself youre talking about, boy! He glanced about to see if anyone had heard. Hes trying to make an example of my men. He wants the other bridgemen to see the wounded suffer and starve. He wants it to seem like hes doing a mercy by leaving the wounded behind. Well, maybe hes right. Its heartless, Kaladin said. He brings back wounded soldiers. He leaves the bridgemen because its cheaper to find new slaves than it is to care for wounded ones. Gaz fell silent. Thank you for bringing me this news. News? Gaz snapped. I was sent to give you orders, lordling. Dont try to get extra food from the mess hall for your wounded; youll be refused. With that, he rushed away, muttering to himself. Kaladin made his way back to the barrack. Stormfather! Where was he going to get food enough to feed three men? He could split his own meals with them, but while bridgemen were kept fed, they werent given an excess. Even feeding one man beyond himself would be a stretch. Trying to split the meals four ways would leave the wounded too weak to recover and Kaladin too weak to run bridges. And he still needed antiseptic! Rotspren and disease killed far more men in war than the enemy did. Kaladin stepped up to the men lounging by the barrack. Most were going about the usual bridgeman activitiessprawled on the ground and despondently staring into the air, sitting and despondently staring at the ground, standing and despondently staring into the distance. Bridge Four wasnt on bridge duty at all this day, and they didnt have work detail until third afternoon bell. Gaz says our wounded are to be refused food or pay until they are well, Kaladin said to the collected men. Some of themSigzil, Peet, Koolfnodded, as if this was what theyd expected. Highprince Sadeas wants to make an example of us, Kaladin said. He wants to prove that bridgemen arent worth healing, and hes going to do it by making Hobber, Leyten, and Dabbid die slow, painful deaths. He took a deep