You need to tell me something true, it replied. The more true, the stronger our bond. Jasnah is using a fake Soulcaster, Shallan thought. Im sure thats a truth. Thats not enough, the voice whispered. I must know something true about you. Tell me. The stronger the truth, the more hidden it is, the more powerful the bond. Tell me. Tell me. What are you? What am I? Shallan whispered. Truthfully? It was a day for confrontation. She felt strangely strong, steady. Time to speak it. Im a murderer. I killed my father. Ah, the voice whispered. A powerful truth indeed. And the alcove vanished. Shallan fell, dropping into that sea of dark glass beads. She struggled, trying to stay at the surface. She managed it for a moment. Then something tugged on her leg, pulling her down. She screamed, slipping beneath the surface, tiny beads of glass filling her mouth. She panicked. She was going to The beads above her parted. Those beneath her surged, bearing her upward, out to where someone stood, hand outstretched. Jasnah, back to the black sky, face lit by nearby hovering flames. Jasnah grasped Shallans hand, pulling her upward, onto something. A raft. Made from the beads of glass. They seemed to obey Jasnahs will. Idiot girl, Jasnah said, waving. The oceanlike beads to the left split, and the raft lurched, bearing them sideways toward a few flames of light. Jasnah shoved Shallan into one of the small flames, and she fell backward off the raft. And hit the floor of the alcove. Jasnah sat where she had been, eyes closed. A moment later, she opened them, giving Shallan an angry look. Idiot girl! Jasnah repeated. You have no idea how dangerous that was. Visiting Shadesmar with only a single dim sphere? Idiot! Shallan coughed, feeling as if she still had beads in her throat. She stumbled to her feet, meeting Jasnahs gaze. The other woman still looked angry, but said nothing. She knows that I have her, Shallan realized. If I spread the truth What would it mean? She had strange powers. Did that make Jasnah some kind of Voidbringer? What would people say? No wonder shed created the decoy. I want to be part of it, Shallan found herself saying. Excuse me? Whatever youre doing. Whatever it is youre researching. I want to be part of it. You have no idea what youre saying. I know, Shallan said. Im ignorant. Theres a simple cure for that. She