I think I understand. So, Kaladin said, resting his head back, the parietal knob of his skull resting against the wall, Im to be judged by the highstorm. Theyll let the storm kill me. Hanging here, Kaladin would be exposed directly to the winds and everything they would throw at him. If you were prudent and took appropriate action, it was possible to survive outside in a highstorm, though it was a miserable experience. Kaladin had done it on several occasions, hunkered down, taking shelter in the lee of a rock formation. But hanging on a wall facing directly stormward? Hed be cut to ribbons and crushed by stones. Ill be right back, Syl said, dropping off his chest, taking the form of a falling stone, then changing into windblown leaves near the ground and fluttering away, curving to the right. The lumberyard was empty. Kaladin could smell the crisp, chill air, the land bracing for a highstorm. The lull, it was called, when the wind fell still, the air cold, the pressure dropping, the humidity rising right before a storm. A few seconds later, Rock poked his head around the wall, Syl on his shoulder. He crept up to Kaladin, a nervous Teft following. They were joined by Moash; despite the latters protests that he didnt trust Kaladin, he looked almost as concerned as the other two. Lordling? Moash said. You awake? Im conscious, Kaladin croaked. Everyone get back from the battle all right? All of our men, sure enough, Teft said, scratching at his beard. But we lost the battle. It was a disaster. Over two hundred bridgemen dead. Those who survived were only enough to carry eleven bridges. Two hundred men, Kaladin thought. Thats my fault. I protected my own at the cost of others. I was too hasty. Bridgemen arent supposed to survive. Theres something about that. He wouldnt be able to ask Lamaril. That man had gotten what he deserved, though. If Kaladin had the ability to choose, such would be the end of all lighteyes, the king included. We wanted to say something, Rock said. Is from all of the men. Most wouldnt come out. Highstorm coming, and Its all right, Kaladin whispered. Teft nudged Rock to continue. Well, is this. We will remember you. Bridge Four, we wont go back to how we were. Maybe all of us will die, but well show the new ones. Fires at night. Laughter. Living. Well make a tradition out of it. For you. Rock and