as Kaladin locked eyes with him. The army doesnt know, do they? Kaladin asked. They arent aware how valuable those plants outside are. You harvest them, you sell the sap, and you make a killing, since the military needs a lot of antiseptic. The old apothecary cursed, pulling his hand back. I dont know what youre talking about. Kaladin took his jar. And if I go to the healing tent and tell them where I got this? Theyd take it from you! the man said urgently. Dont be a fool. Youve a slave brand, boy. Theyll think you stole it. Kaladin moved to walk away. Ill give a skymark, the apothecary said. Thats half what Id charge the military for this much. Kaladin turned. You charge them two skymarks for something that only takes a couple of days to gather? Its not just me, the apothecary said, scowling. Each of the apothecaries charges the same. We got together, decided on a fair price. How is that a fair price? We have to make a living here, in this Almighty-forsaken land! It costs us money to set up shop, to maintain ourselves, to hire guards. He fished in his pouch, pulling out a sphere that glowed deep blue. A sapphire sphere was worth about twenty-five times a diamond one. As Kaladin made one diamond mark a day, a skymark was worth as much as Kaladin made in half a month. Of course, a common darkeyed soldier earned five clearmarks a day, which would make this a weeks wages to them. Once, this wouldnt have seemed like much money to Kaladin. Now it was a fortune. Still, he hesitated. I should expose you. Men die because of you. No they dont, the apothecary said. The highprinces have more than enough to pay this, considering what they make on the plateaus. We supply them with bottles of sap as often as they need them. All youd do by exposing us is let monsters like Sadeas keep a few more spheres in their pockets! The apothecary was sweating. Kaladin was threatening to topple his entire business on the Shattered Plains. And so much money was being earned on the sap that this could grow very dangerous. Men killed to keep such secrets. Line my pocket or line the brightlords, Kaladin said. I guess I cant argue with that logic. He set the bottle back on the counter. Ill take the deal, provided you throw in some more bandages. Very well, the apothecary said, relaxing. But stay away from those reeds. Im surprised you found any nearby that hadnt already been harvested. My