revealing the milky white knobweed sap inside. Hed used the first of what theyd harvested to treat Leyten, Dabbid, and Hobber. Whats this? the elderly apothecary asked, adjusting his spectacles and leaning down. Offering me a drink? I dont take the stuff these days. Unsettles the stomach, you know. Its not liquor. Its knobweed sap. You said it was expensive. Well, how much will you give me for this? The apothecary blinked, then leaned in closer, giving the contents a whiff. Whered you get this? I harvested it from the reeds growing outside of camp. The apothecarys expression darkened. He shrugged. Worthless, Im afraid. What? The wild weeds arent potent enough. The apothecary replaced the cork. A strong wind buffeted the building, blowing under the door, stirring the scents of the many powders and tonics he sold. This is practically useless. Ill give you two clearmarks for it, which is being generous. Ill have to distill it, and will be lucky to get a couple of spoonfuls. Two marks! Kaladin thought with despair. After three days of work, three of us pushing ourselves, getting only a few hours of sleep each night? All for something worth only a couple days wage? But no. The sap had worked on Leytens wound, making the rotspren flee and the infection retreat. Kaladin narrowed his eyes as the apothecary fished two marks out of his money pouch, setting them on the table. Like many spheres, these were flattened slightly on one side to keep them from rolling away. Actually, the apothecary said, rubbing his chin. Ill give you three. He took out one more mark. Hate to see all of your effort go to waste. Kaladin, Syl said, studying the apothecary. Hes nervous about something. I think hes lying! I know, Kaladin said. Whats that? the apothecary said. Well, if you knew it was worthless, why did you spend so much effort on it? He reached for the bottle. Kaladin caught his hand. We got two or more drops from each reed, you know. The apothecary frowned. Last time, Kaladin said, you told me Id be lucky to get one drop per reed. You said that was why knobweed sap was so expensive. You said nothing about wild plants being weaker. Well, I didnt think youd go and try gathering them, and He trailed off