Others began carting away boxes of scrap metal. You couldnt trade me a soldier, could you? Vstim asked as they waited. They cannot be sold to an outsider, I am afraid. But there was that one you traded me Its been nearly seven years! Thresh said with a laugh. And still you ask! You dont know what I got for him, Vstim said. And you gave him to me for practically nothing! He was Truthless, Thresh said, shrugging. He wasnt worth anything at all. You forced me to take something in trade, though to confess, I had to throw your payment into a river. I could not take money for a Truthless. Well, I suppose I cant take offense at that, Vstim said, rubbing his chin. But if you ever have another, let me know. Best servant I ever had. I still regret that I traded him. I will remember, friend, Thresh said. But I do not think it likely we will have another like him. He seemed to grow distracted. Indeed, I should hope that we never do. Once the goods were exchanged, they shook hands again, then Vstim bowed to the farmer. Rysn tried to mimic what he did, and earned a smile from Thresh and several of his companions, who chattered in their whispering Shin language. Such a long, boring ride for such a short exchange. But Vstim was right; those chickens would be worth good spheres in the East. What did you learn? Vstim said to her as they walked back toward the lead wagon. That Shin are odd. No, Vstim said, though he wasnt stern. He never seemed to be stern. They are simply different, child. Odd people are those who act erratically. Thresh and his kind, they are anything but erratic. They may be a little too stable. The world is changing outside, but the Shin seem determined to remain the same. Ive tried to offer them fabrials, but they find them worthless. Or unholy. Or too holy to use. Those are rather different things, master. Yes, he said. But with the Shin, its often hard to distinguish among them. Regardless, what did you really learn? That they treat being humble like the Herdazians treat boasting, she said. You both went out of your way to show how worthless your wares were. I found it strange, but I think it might just be how they haggle. He smiled widely. And already you are wiser than half the men Ive brought here. Listen. Here is your lesson. Never try to cheat the Shin. Be