trying to wake me up, but I was too addled by my wine. I should have been there for him. He looked to Adolin. I cannot live in the past. It is foolishness to do so. I blame myself for Gavilars death, but there is nothing to be done for him now. Adolin nodded. Son, I keep hoping that if I make you follow the Codes long enough, you will seeas I havetheir importance. Hopefully you will not need as dramatic an example of it as I did. Regardless, you need to understand. You speak of Sadeas, of beating him, of competing with him. Do you know of Sadeass part in my brothers death? He was the decoy, Adolin said. Sadeas, Gavilar, and Dalinar had been good friends up until the kings death. Everyone knew it. They had conquered Alethkar together. Yes, Dalinar said. He was with the king and heard the soldiers crying that a Shardbearer was attacking. The decoy idea was Sadeass planhe put on one of Gavilars robes and fled in Gavilars place. It was suicide, what he did. Wearing no Plate, making a Shardbearer assassin chase him. I honestly think it was one of the bravest things Ive ever known a man to do. But it failed. Yes. And theres a part of me that can never forgive Sadeas for that failure. I know its irrational, but he should have been there, with Gavilar. Just like I should have been. We both failed our king, and we cannot forgive one another. But the two of us are still united in one thing. We made a vow on that day. Wed protect Gavilars son. No matter what the cost, no matter what other things came between us, we would protect Elhokar . And so thats why Im here on these Plains. It isnt wealth or glory. I care nothing for those things, not any longer. I came for the brother I loved, and for the nephew I love in his own right. And, in a way, this is what divides Sadeas and me even as it unites us. Sadeas thinks that the best way to protect Elhokar is to kill the Parshendi. He drives himself, and his men, brutally, to get to those plateaus and fight. I believe a part of him thinks Im breaking my vow by not doing the same. But thats not the way to protect Elhokar. He needs a stable throne, allies that support him, not highprinces that bicker. Making a strong Alethkar will protect him better than killing our enemies will. This was Gavilars lifes work, uniting the highprinces He trailed off. Adolin waited for more, but it did not come. Sadeas, Adolin finally said. Imsurprised to hear you call him brave. He is brave. And cunning. Sometimes, I make the mistake of letting his