fortress. No army could approach without being seen long before its arrival. The air was cold enough that clumps of ice clung to the stone in shadowed corners. The sunlight did little to dispel the cold, and the weather explained the lack of grass; the blades would be retracted into their holes, awaiting the relief of spring weather. Dalinar pulled his cloak closer, prompting one of his companions to do the same. Storming weather, the man muttered. How longs it going to last? Been eight weeks already. Eight weeks? Forty days of winter at once? That was rare. Despite the cold, the other three soldiers looked anything but engaged by their guard duties. One was even dozing. Stay alert, Dalinar chided them. They glanced at him, the one who had been dozing blinking awake. All three seemed incredulous. Onea tall, red-haired manscowled. This from you, Leef? Dalinar bit back a retort. Who did they see him as? The chill air made his breath steam, and from behind him he could hear metal clanging as men worked at forges and anvils below. The gates to the fortress were closed, and the archer towers were manned to the left and right. They were at war, but guard duty was always boring work. It took well trained soldiers to remain alert for hours on end. Perhaps that was why there were so many soldiers here; if the quality of eyes watching could not be assured, then quantity would serve. However, Dalinar had an advantage. The visions never showed him episodes of idle peace; they threw him into times of conflict and change. Turning points. So it was that, despite dozens of other eyes watching, he was the first to spot it. There! he said, leaning out over the side of the roughstone crenellation. What is that? The redheaded man raised a hand, shading his eyes. Nothing. A shadow. No, its moving, said one of the others. Looks like people. Marching. Dalinars heart began to thump in anticipation as the red-haired man called the alert. More archers rushed onto the battlement, stringing bows. Soldiers gathered in the ruddy courtyard below. Everything was made of that same red rock, and Dalinar caught one of the men referring to this place as Feverstone Keep. Hed never heard of it. Scouts galloped from the keep on horses. Why didnt they have outriders already? It has to be the rear defense force, one soldier muttered. They cant have