chooses his own path, and the ardents help him achieve closeness to the Almighty through it. Instead of shadowed prophecies and pretend powers held by a few, we have a population who understand their beliefs and their relationship with their God. He stepped closer, speaking very softly. Your father is not to be mocked or diminished. If his visions are true, then it is between him and the Almighty. All I can say is this: I know something of what it is to be haunted by the death and destruction of war. I see in your fathers eyes much of what I have felt, but worse. My personal opinion is that the things he sees are likely more a reflection of his past than any mystical experience. So he is going mad, Adolin whispered. I did not say that. You implied that the Almighty probably wouldnt send visions like these. I did. And that his visions are a product of his own mind.  Likely so, the ardent said, raising his finger. A delicate balance, you see. One that is particularly difficult to keep when speaking to my highprinces own son. He reached out, taking Adolins arm. If any are to help him, it must be you. It would not be the place of any other, even myself. Adolin nodded slowly. Thank you. You should likely go see to that young woman now. Yes, Adolin said with a sigh. I fear that even with the right gift, she and I are not long for courting. Renarin will mock me again. Kadash smiled. Best not to give up so easily, bright one. Go now. But do return sometime so we can speak of your goals in regard to your Calling. It has been too long since youve Elevated. Adolin nodded and hurried from the chamber. After hours going over the ledgers with Teshav, Dalinar and Renarin reached the hallway before the kings chambers. They walked in silence, the soles of their boots clapping the marble flooring, the sound echoing against stone walls. The corridors of the kings war palace were growing richer by the week. Once, this hallway had been just another Soulcast stone tunnel. As Elhokar settled in, he had ordered improvements. Windows were cut into the leeward side. Marble tiling was set into the floor. The walls were carved with reliefs, with mosaic trim at the corners. Dalinar and Renarin passed a group of