With what? the man asked. Kaladin pulled off his vest and shirt, then handed the shirt to Narm. Use this as tinder and gather some fallen arrows for wood. Does anyone have flint and steel? Moash did, fortunately. You carried anything valuable you had with you on a bridge run; other bridgemen might steal it if you left it behind. Move quickly! Kaladin said. Someone else, go rip open a rockbud and get me the watergourd inside. They stood for a few moments. Then, blessedly, they did as he demanded. Perhaps they were too stunned to object. Kaladin tore open Gadols shirt, exposing the wound. It was bad, terribly bad. If it had cut the intestines or some of the other organs He ordered one of the bridgemen to hold a bandage to Gadols forehead to stanch the smaller blood flow thereanything would helpand inspected the wounded side with the speed his father had taught him. Dunny returned quickly with a knife. Narm was having trouble with the fire, though. The man cursed, trying his flint and steel again. Gadol was spasming. Kaladin pressed bandages to the wound, feeling helpless. There wasnt a place he could make a tourniquet for a wound like this. There wasnt anything he could do but Gadol spit up blood, coughing. They break the land itself! he hissed, eyes wild. They want it, but in their rage they will destroy it. Like the jealous man burns his rich things rather than let them be taken by his enemies! They come! He gasped. And then he fell still, his dead eyes staring upward, bloody spittle running in a trail down his cheek. His final, haunting words hung over them. Not far away, soldiers fought and screamed, but the bridgemen were silent. Kaladin sat back, stunnedas alwaysby the pain of losing someone. His father had always said that time would dull his sensitivity. In this, Lirin had been wrong. He felt so tired. Rock and Teft were hurrying back toward the cleft in the rock, bearing a body between them. They wouldnt have brought anyone unless he was still alive, Kaladin told himself. Think of the ones you can help. Keep that fire going! he said, pointing at Narm. Dont let it die! Someone heat the blade in it. Narm jumped, noticing as if for the first time that hed actually managed to get a small flame started. Kaladin turned away from the dead Gadol and made room for Rock and Teft. They deposited a very bloody Leyten on the ground. He was breathing shallowly and had two arrows sticking from him, one from the