You search for truth, Jasnah said, but you also hold to your faith. There is much to admire in that. Seek out the Devotary of Sincerity. They are one of the very smallest of the devotaries, but this book is their guide. One with blank pages? Indeed. They worship the Almighty, but are guided by the belief that there are always more answers to be found. The book cannot be filled, as there is always something to learn. This devotary is a place where one is never penalized for questions, even those challenging Vorinisms own tenets. She shook her head. I cannot explain their ways. You should be able to find them in Vedenar, though there are none in Kharbranth. I Shallan trailed off, noticing how Jasnahs hand rested fondly on the book. It was precious to her. I hadnt thought to find ardents who were willing to question their own beliefs. Jasnah raised an eyebrow. You will find wise men in any religion, Shallan, and good men in every nation. Those who truly seek wisdom are those who will acknowledge the virtue in their adversaries and who will learn from those who disabuse them of error. All othersheretic, Vorin, Ysperist, or Maakianare equally closed-minded. She took her hand from the book, moving as if to stand up. Hes wrong, Shallan said suddenly, realizing something. Jasnah turned to her. Kabsal, Shallan said, blushing. He says youre researching the Voidbringers because you want to prove that Vorinism is false. Jasnah sniffed in derision. I would not dedicate four years of my life to such an empty pursuit. Its idiocy to try to prove a negative. Let the Vorin believe as they wishthe wise among them will find goodness and solace in their faith; the fools would be fools no matter what they believed. Shallan frowned. So why was Jasnah studying the Voidbringers? Ah. Speak of the storm and it begins to bluster, Jasnah said, turning toward the rooms entrance. With a start, Shallan realized that Kabsal had just arrived, wearing his usual grey robes. He was arguing softly with a nurse, who pointed at the basket he carried. Finally, the nurse threw up her hands and walked away, leaving Kabsal to approach, triumphant. Finally! he said to Shallan. Old Mungam can be a real tyrant. Mungam? Shallan asked. The ardent who runs this place, Kabsal said. I should have been allowed in immediately. After all, I know what you need to make you better! He pulled out a jar of jam, smiling broadly.