thousand of his four, probably more. But it didnt matter. The Parshendi fought to kill, but the Alethithis timefought to live. Living Heralds above, Teft thought, watching Kaladin fight. Just moments ago, the lad had looked near death, skin a dull grey, hands shaking. Now he was a shining whirlwind, a storm wielding a spear. Teft had known many a battlefield, but he had never seen anything remotely like this. Kaladin held the ground before the bridge by himself. White Stormlight streamed from him like a blazing fire. His speed was incredible, nearly inhuman, and his precisioneach thrust of the spear hit a neck, side, or other unarmored target of Parshendi flesh. It was more than the Stormlight. Teft had only a fragmentary recollection of the things his family had tried to teach him, but those memories all agreed. Stormlight did not grant skill. It could not make a man into something he was not. It enhanced, it strengthened, it invigorated. It perfected. Kaladin ducked low, slamming the butt against the leg of a Parshendi, dropping him to the ground, and came up to block an axe swing by catching the haft with that of his spear. He let go with one hand, sweeping the tip of the spear up under the arm of the Parshendi and ramming it into his armpit. As that Parshendi fell, Kaladin pulled his spear free and slammed the end into a Parshendi head that had gotten too close. The butt of the spear shattered with a spray of wood, and the Parshendis carapace helm exploded. No, this wasnt just Stormlight. This was a master of the spear with his capacity enhanced to astonishing levels. The bridgemen gathered around Teft, amazed. His wounded arm didnt seem to hurt as much as it should. Hes like a part of the wind itself, Drehy said. Pulled down and given life. Not a man at all. A spren. Sigzil? Skar asked, eyes wide. You ever seen anything like this? The dark-skinned man shook his head. Stormfather, Peet whispered. What what is he? Hes our bridgeleader, Teft said, snapping out of his reverie. On the other side of the chasm, Kaladin barely dodged a blow from a Parshendi mace. And he needs our help! First and second teams, you take the left side. Dont let the Parshendi get around him. Third and fourth teams, youre with me on the right! Rock and Lopen, you be ready to pull back any wounded. The rest of you, wrinkled wall formation. Dont attack, just stay alive and keep them back. And