down at Kal. You know that were second nahn. Sure, Kal said, shrugging. An accomplished young surgeon of the right rank could draw the attention of a poorer noble family, one who wished money and acclaim. It happens in the larger cities. Kal glanced up at the mansion again. Thats why you encouraged me to play with Laral so much. You wanted to marry me off to her, didnt you? It was a possibility, his mother said, returning to her work. He honestly wasnt certain how he felt about that. The last few months had been strange for Kal. His father had forced him into his studies, but in secret hed spent his time with the staff. Two possible paths. Both enticing. Kal did like learning, and he longed for the ability to help people, bind their wounds, make them better. He saw true nobility in what his father did. But it seemed to Kal that if he could fight, he could do something even more noble. Protect their lands, like the great lighteyed heroes of the stories. And there was the way he felt when holding a weapon. Two paths. Opposites, in many ways. He could only choose one. His mother kept chipping away at the eaves, andwith a sighKal fetched a second stepladder and set of tools from the workroom, then joined her. He was tall for his age, but he still had to stand high on the ladder. He caught his mother smiling as he worked, no doubt pleased at having raised such a helpful young man. In reality, Kal just wanted the chance to pound on something. How would he feel, marrying someone like Laral? Hed never be her equal. Their children would have a chance of being lighteyed or darkeyed, so even his children might outrank him. He knew hed feel terribly out of place. That was another aspect of becoming a surgeon. If he chose that path, he would be choosing the life of his father. Choosing to set himself apart, to be isolated. If he went to war, however, he would have a place. Maybe he could even do the nearly unthinkable, win a Shardblade and become a true lighteyes. Then he could marry Laral and not have to be her inferior. Was that why shed always encouraged him to become a soldier? Had she been thinking about these kinds of things, even back then? Back then, these kinds of decisionsmarriage, his futurehad seemed impossibly far-off to Kal. He felt so young. Did he really have to consider these questions? It would still be another few years before the surgeons of Kharbranth would let him take their tests. But if he were going to become a soldier instead, hed have to join the army before that happened. How would his father react if Kal just up and went with the recruiters? Kal wasnt certain hed be able to face Lirins disappointed eyes.