it important for Shallan to practice doing it herself. Apparently the Kharbranthian filing system was now standard for many of Roshars libraries and archives. At the back of the room, she found a small desk of cobwood. She set her lantern on one side and sat on the stool, getting out her portfolio. The room was silent and dark, her lantern light revealing the ends of bookshelves to her right and a smooth stone wall to her left. The air smelled of old paper and dust. Not wet. It was never damp in the Palanaeum. Perhaps the dryness had something to do with the long troughs of white powder at the ends of each room. She undid her portfolios leather ties. Inside, the top sheets were blank, and the next few contained drawings shed done of people in the Palanaeum. More faces for her collection. Hidden in the middle was a far more important set of drawings: sketches of Jasnah performing Soulcastings. The princess used her Soulcaster infrequently; perhaps she hesitated to use it when Shallan was around. But Shallan had caught a handful of occasions, mostly when Jasnah had been distracted, and had apparently forgotten she wasnt alone. Shallan held up one picture. Jasnah, sitting in the alcove, hand to the side and touching a crumpled piece of notepaper, a gem on her Soulcaster glowing. Shallan held up the next picture. It depicted the same scene just seconds later. The paper had become a ball of flames. It hadnt burned. No, it had become fire . Tongues of flame coiling, a flash of heat in the air. What had been on it that Jasnah wished to hide? Another picture showed Jasnah Soulcasting the wine in her cup into a chunk of crystal to use as a paperweight, the goblet itself holding down another stack, on one of the rare occasions when theyd dinedand studiedon a patio outside the Conclave. There was also the one of Jasnah burning words after running out of ink. When Shallan had seen her burning letters into a page, shed been amazed at the Soulcasters precision. It seemed that this Soulcaster was attuned to three Essences in particular: Vapor, Spark, and Lucentia. But it should be able to create any of the Ten Essences, from Zephyr to Talus. That last one was the most important to Shallan, as Talus included stone and earth. She could create new mineral deposits for her family to exploit. It would work; Soulcasters were very rare in Jah Keved, and her familys marble, jade, and opal would sell at a premium. They couldnt create actual gemstones with a Soulcasterthat was said to be impossiblebut they could create other deposits of near equal value. Once those new deposits ran out, theyd have to move to less lucrative trades. That would be all right, though. By then, theyd have paid off their debts and compensated those to whom promises had been broken. House Davar would