The man who had kicked hera thick-browed brute with a mop of uncombed black hairbegan to button up the right side of his coat. You dont belong here, friends. It seems you wandered into the wrong warcamp. We have legitimate business, said the officer in blue. He had light golden hair, speckled with Alethi black, and a handsome face. He held his hand before him as if wishing to shake hands with Sadeass officer. Come now, he said affably. Whatever your problem with this woman, Im sure it can be resolved without anger or violence. Kaladin moved back under the overhang where Syl had hidden. Shes a whore, Sadeass man said. I can see that, replied the man in blue. He kept his hand out. The officer in red spat on it. I see, said the blond man. He pulled his hand back, and twisting lines of mist gathered in the air, coalescing in his hands as he raised them to an offensive posture. A massive sword appeared, as long as a man is tall. It dripped with water that condensed along its cold, glimmering length. It was beautiful, long and sinuous, its single edge rippled like an eel and curved up into a point. The back bore delicate ridges, like crystal formations. Sadeass officer stumbled away and fell, his face pale. The soldiers in red scattered. The officer cursed at themas vile a curse as Kaladin had ever heard but none returned to help him. With a final glare, he scrambled up the steps back into the building. The door slammed, leaving the roadway eerily silent. Kaladin was the only one on the street besides the soldiers in blue and the fallen courtesan. The Shardbearer gave Kaladin a glance, but obviously judged him no threat. He thrust his sword into the stones; the blade sank in easily and stood with its hilt toward the sky. The young Shardbearer then gave his hand to the fallen whore. What did you do to him, out of curiosity? Hesitantly, she took his hand and let him pull her to her feet. He refused to pay, claiming his reputation made it a pleasure for me. She grimaced. He kicked me the first time after I made a comment about his reputation. It apparently wasnt what he thought he was known for. The brightlord chuckled. I suggest you insist on being paid first from now on. Well escort you to the border. I advise against returning to Sadeass warcamp anytime soon. The woman nodded, holding the front of her dress to her chest. Her safehand was still exposed. Sleek, with tan skin, the fingers long and delicate. Kaladin found himself staring at it and blushing. She sidled up to the brightlord while his