softly to accompany him, he saw other murders. These Uvara, these People of the Great Abyss, were prone to astonishing cruelty. If one of their members did something wrongsomething the slightest bit untoward or unfavorablethe others would slaughter him or her. Each time he asked, Derethils caretaker gave him the same answer. Our emperor will not suffer failure. The echoing music faded, but once again Hoid lifted his flute just as it grew too soft to hear. The melody grew solemn. Soft, quiet, like a lament for one who had passed. And yet it was edged with mystery, occasional quick bursts, hinting at secrets. Kaladin frowned as he watched the smoke spin, making what appeared to be a tower. Tall, thin, with an open structure at the top. The emperor, Derethil discovered, resided in the tower on the eastern coast of the largest island among the Uvara. Kaladin felt a chill. The smoke images were just from his mind, adding to the story, werent they? Had he really seen a tower before Hoid mentioned it? Derethil determined that he needed to confront this cruel emperor. What kind of monster would demand that such an obviously peaceful people kill so often and so terribly? Derethil gathered his sailors, a heroic group, and they armed themselves. The Uvara did not try to stop them, though they watched with fright as the strangers stormed the emperors tower. Hoid fell silent, and didnt turn back to his flute. Instead, he let the music echo in the chasm. It seemed to linger this time. Long, sinister notes. Derethil and his men came out of the tower a short time later, carrying a desiccated corpse in fine robes and jewelry. This is your emperor? Derethil demanded. We found him in the top room, alone. It appeared that the man had been dead for years, but nobody had dared enter his tower. They were too frightened of him. When he showed the Uvara the dead body, they began to wail and weep. The entire island was cast into chaos, as the Uvara began to burn homes, riot, or fall to their knees in torment. Amazed and confused, Derethil and his men stormed the Uvara shipyards, where the Wandersail was being repaired. Their guide and caretaker joined them, and she begged to accompany them in their escape. So it was that Nafti joined the crew. Derethil and his men set sail, and though the winds were still, they rode the Wandersail around the whirlpool, using the momentum to spin them out and away from the islands. Long after they left, they could see the smoke rising from the ostensibly peaceful lands. They gathered on the deck, watching, and Derethil asked Nafti the reason for the terrible riots. Hoid fell silent, letting his words rise with the strange smoke, lost to the