off during the scouring of Aimia, we thought wed seen the last gemhearts of large size. And yet here was another great-shelled beast with them, living in a land not too distant from Kholinar itself. Anyway, the Parshendi were willing to share them with us, so long as they could still hunt them too. To them, if you took the trouble to hunt the chasmfiends, their gemhearts were yours. I doubt a treaty would have been needed for that. And yet, just before leaving to return to Alethkar, my father suddenly began talking fervently of the need for an agreement. So what happened? What changed? I cant be certain. However, he once described the strange actions of a Parshendi warrior during a chasmfiend hunt. Instead of reaching for his spear when the greatshell appeared, this man held his hand to the side in a very suspicious way. Only my father saw it; I suspected he believed the man planned to summon a Blade. The Parshendi realized what he was doing, and stopped himself. My father didnt speak of it further, and I assume he didnt want the worlds eyes on the Shattered Plains any more than they already were. Shallan tapped her book. It seems tenuous. If he was sure about the Blades, he must have seen more. I suspect so as well. But I studied the treaty carefully, after his death. The clauses for favored trade status and mutual border crossing could very well have been a step toward folding the Parshendi into Alethkar as a nation. It certainly would have prevented the Parshendi from trading their Shards to other kingdoms without coming to us first. Perhaps that was all he wanted to do. But why kill him? Shallan said, arms crossed, strolling in the direction of Jasnahs folded clothing. Did the Parshendi realize that he intended to have their Shardblades, and so struck at him preemptively? Uncertain, Jasnah said. She sounded skeptical. Why did she think the Parshendi killed Gavilar? Shallan nearly asked, but she had a feeling she wouldnt get any more out of Jasnah. The woman expected Shallan to think, discover, and draw conclusions on her own. Shallan stopped beside the bench. The pouch holding the Soulcaster was open, the drawstrings loose. She could see the precious artifact curled up inside. The swap would be easy. She had used a large chunk of her money to buy gemstones that matched Jasnahs, and had put them into the broken Soulcaster. The two were now exactly identical. She still hadnt learned anything about using the fabrial; shed tried to find a way to ask, but Jasnah avoided speaking of the Soulcaster. Pushing harder would be suspicious. Shallan would have to get information elsewhere. Perhaps from Kabsal, or maybe from a book in the Palanaeum.