Ive made sure that some of the ones guarding the island tonight are among those most loyal to you. Adolin nodded toward a space in the darkness to the side of the feasting basin. I think we should position them over there. Itll make a good line of retreat in case the king tries to have you arrested. I still dont think it will come to that. You cant be sure. Elhokar allowed this investigation in the first place, after all. Hes growing more and more paranoid. Dalinar glanced over at the king. The younger man almost always wore his Shardplate these days, though he didnt have it on now. He seemed continually on edge, glancing over his shoulder, eyes darting from side to side. Let me know when the men are in position, Dalinar said. Adolin nodded, walking away quickly. The situation gave Dalinar little stomach for mingling. Still, standing alone and looking awkward was no better, so he made his way to where Highprince Hatham was speaking with a small group of lighteyes beside the main firepit. They nodded to Dalinar as he joined them; regardless of the way they were treating him in general, they would never turn him away at a feast like this. That simply wasnt done to one of his rank. Ah, Brightlord Dalinar, Hatham said in his smooth, overly polite way. The long-necked, slender man wore a ruffled green shirt underneath a robelike coat, with a darker green silk scarf around the neck. A faintly glowing ruby sat on each of his fingers; theyd each had some of their Stormlight drained away by a fabrial made for the purpose. Of Hathams four companions, two were lesser lighteyes and one was a short white-robed ardent Dalinar didnt know. The last was a red-gloved Natan man with bluish skin and stark white hair, two locks dyed a deep red and braided down to hang alongside his cheeks. He was a visiting dignitary; Dalinar had seen him at the feasts. What was his name again? Tell me, Brightlord Dalinar, Hatham said. Have you been paying much attention to the conflict between the Tukari and the Emuli? Its a religious conflict, isnt it? Dalinar asked. Both were Makabaki kingdoms, on the southern coast where trade was plentiful and profitable. Religious? the Natan man said. No, I wouldnt say that. All conflicts are essentially economic in nature. Au-nak, Dalinar recalled. Thats his name . He spoke with an airy accent, overextending all of his ah and oh sounds. Money is behind every war, Au-nak continued. Religion is but an excuse. Or perhaps a justification. Theres a difference? the ardent said, obviously taking offense at Au-naks