Four Parshendi threw themselves at him; they seemed to know that working into close quarters was one of the best ways to drop him. If they got too close, the length of his Blades hilt and the nature of his armor would make fighting more difficult for him. Dalinar spun in a long, waist-high attack, and noted the deaths of Parshendi by the slight tug on the Blade as it passed through their chests. He got all four of them, and felt a surge of satisfaction. It was followed immediately by nausea. Damnation! he thought. Not again! He turned toward another group of Parshendi as the eyes of the dead burned out and smoked. He threw himself into another attackraising Blade in a twisting swing over his head, then bringing it down parallel to the ground. Six Parshendi died. He felt a spike of regret along with displeasure at the Thrill. Surely these Parshendi these soldiersdeserved respect, not glee, as they were slaughtered. He remembered the times when the Thrill had been the strongest. Subduing the highprinces with Gavilar during their youths, forcing back the Vedens, fighting the Herdazians and destroying the Akak Reshi. Once, the thirst for battle had nearly led him to attack Gavilar himself. Dalinar could remember the jealousy on that day some ten years ago, when the itch to attack Gavilarthe only worthy opponent he could see, the man who had won Navanis handhad nearly consumed him. His honor guard cheered as his foes dropped. He felt hollow, but he seized the Thrill and got a tight grip on his feelings and emotions. He let the Thrill pulse through him. Blessedly, the sickness went away, which was good, for another group of Parshendi charged him from the side. He executed a Windstance turn, shifting his feet, lowering his shoulder, and throwing his weight behind his Blade as he swung. He got three in the sweep, but the fourth and final Parshendi shoved past his wounded comrades, getting inside Dalinars reach, swinging his hammer. His eyes were wide with anger and determination, though he did not yell or bellow. He just continued his song. His blow cracked into Dalinars helm. It pushed his head to the side but the Plate absorbed most of the hit, a few tiny weblike lines cracking along its length. Dalinar could see them glowing faintly, releasing Stormlight at the edges of his vision. The Parshendi was in too close. Dalinar dropped his Blade. The weapon puffed away to mist as Dalinar raised an armored arm and blocked the next hammer blow. Then he swung with his other arm, smashing his fist into the Parshendis shoulder. The blow tossed the man to the ground. The Parshendis song cut off. Gritting his teeth, Dalinar stepped up and kicked the man in the