Very well, Wit said without missing a beat, Ill confess there were actually three sisters, but Prince Renarin quite unfairly ended up with two of them, and I didnt wish to diminish my reputation by Wit. Dalinar was stern as he cut in. The black-clad man looked to him. Perhaps you should restrict your mockery to those who deserve it. Brightlord Dalinar. I believe that was what I was doing. Dalinars frown deepened. He never had liked Wit, and picking on Renarin was a sure way to raise his ire. Adolin could understand that, but Wit was almost always good-natured with Renarin. Wit moved to leave, passing Dalinar as he did. Adolin could barely overhear what was said as Wit leaned over to whisper something. Those who deserve my mockery are those who can benefit from it, Brightlord Dalinar. That one is less fragile than you think him. He winked, then turned his horse to move on over the bridge. Stormwinds, but I like that man, Adolin said. Best Wit weve had in ages! I find him unnerving, Renarin said softly. Thats half the fun! Dalinar said nothing. The three of them crossed the bridge, passing Wit, who had stopped to torment a group of officerslighteyes of low enough rank that they needed to serve in the army and earn a wage. Several of them laughed while Wit poked fun at another. The three of them joined the king, and were immediately approached by the days huntmaster. Bashin was a short man with a sizable paunch; he wore rugged clothing with a leather overcoat and a wide-brimmed hat. He was a darkeyes of the first nahn, the highest and most prestigious rank a darkeyes could have, worthy even of marrying into a lighteyed family. Bashin bowed to the king. Your Majesty! Wonderful timing! Weve just tossed down the bait. Excellent, Elhokar said, climbing from the saddle. Adolin and Dalinar did likewise, Shardplate clinking softly, Dalinar untying his helm from the saddle. How long will it take? Two or three hours is likely, Bashin said, taking the reins of the kings horse. Grooms took the two Ryshadium. Weve set up over there. Bashin pointed toward the hunting plateau, the smaller plateau where the actual fighting would take place away from the attendants and the bulk of the soldiers. A group of hunters led a lumbering chull around its perimeter, towing a rope draped over the side of the cliff. That rope would be dragging the bait.