What will you be doing? Walking, Kaladin said. And thinking. An hour later, Kaladin still wandered Sadeass warcamp. Hed need to return to the lumberyard soon; his men were on chasm duty again, and had been given only a few free hours to care for equipment. As a youth, he hadnt understood why his father had often gone walking to think. The older Kaladin grew, the more he found himself imitating his fathers habits. Walking, moving, it did something to his mind. The constant passing of tents, colors cycling, men bustlingit created a sense of change, and it made his thoughts want to move as well. Dont hedge bets with your life, Kaladin, Durk had always said. Dont put in a chip when you have a pocket full of marks. Bet them all or leave the table. Syl danced before him, jumping from shoulder to shoulder in the crowded street. Occasionally shed land on the head of someone passing in the other direction and sit there, legs crossed, as she passed Kaladin. All his spheres were on the table. He was determined to help the bridgemen. But something itched at him, a worry that he couldnt yet explain. You seem troubled, Syl said, landing on his shoulder. She wore a cap and jacket over her usual dress, as if imitating nearby shop keepers. They passed the apothecarys shop. Kaladin barely bothered to glance at it. He had no knobweed sap to sell. Hed run out of supplies soon. Hed told his men that hed train them to fight, but that would take time. And once they were trained, how would they get spears out of the chasms to use in the escape? Sneaking them out would be tough, considering how they were searched. They could just start fighting at the search itself, but that would only put the entire warcamp on alert. Problems, problems. The more he thought, the more impossible his task seemed. He made way for a couple of soldiers in forest-green coats. Their brown eyes marked them as common citizens, but the white knots on their shoulders meant they were citizen officers. Squadleaders and sergeants. Kaladin? Syl asked. Getting the bridgemen out is as large a task as Ive ever faced. Much more difficult than my other escape attempts as a slave, and I failed at each of those. I cant help wondering if Im setting myself up for another disaster.