wishing to give up the war. Suspected of trying to kill the king. Eventually, Teleb decided that letting all the people stare down at Dalinar wasnt respectful, and he ordered the men back to their separate duties. He cleared away the workers, taking Dalinars order to heart and commanding them to sit in the shade and converse in a lighthearted manner. From someone else, that command might have been said with a smile, but Teleb was as literal as the rocks themselves. Still Dalinar worked. He knew where the latrine was supposed to end; hed approved the work order. A long, sloping trough was to be cut, then covered with oiled and tarred boards to seal in the scent. A latrine house would be set at the high end, and the contents could be Soulcast to smoke once every few months. The work felt even better once he was alone. One man, breaking rocks, pounding beat after beat. Like the drums the Parshendi had played on that day so long past. Dalinar could feel those beats still, could hear them in his mind, shaking him. Im sorry, brother. He had spoken to the ardents about his visions. They felt that the visions were most likely a product of an overtaxed mind. He had no reason to believe the truth of anything the visions showed him. In following them, he had done more than just ignore Sadeass maneuvers; hed depleted his resources precariously. His reputation was on the brink of ruin. He was in danger of dragging down the entire Kholin house. And that was the most important point in favor of him abdicating. If he continued, his actions could very well lead to the deaths of Adolin, Renarin, and Elhokar. He would risk his own life for his ideals, but could he risk the lives of his sons? Chips sprayed, bouncing off his Plate. He was beginning to feel worn and tired. The Plate didnt do the work for himit enhanced his strength, so each strike of the hammer was his own. His fingers were growing numb from the repeated vibration of the hammers haft. He was close to a decision. His mind was calm, clear. He swung the hammer again. Wouldnt the Blade be more efficient? asked a dry, feminine voice. Dalinar froze, the hammers head resting on broken stone. He turned to see Navani standing beside the trough, wearing a gown of blue and soft red, her grey-sprinkled hair reflecting light from a sun that was unexpectedly close to setting. She was attended by two young womennot her own wards, but ones