his gaze. Shed practiced that look over the de cades, and was pleased to see that it discomfited him. Im sorry, Brightness, Sadeas repeated, stammering. The Parshendi overwhelmed your brothers army. It was folly to work together. Our change in tactics was so threatening to the savages that they brought every soldier they could to this battle, surrounding us. And so you left Dalinar? We fought hard to reach him, but the numbers were simply overpowering. We had to retreat lest we lose ourselves as well! I would have continued fighting, save for the fact that I saw your brother fall with my own eyes, swarmed by Parshendi with hammers. He grimaced. They began carrying away chunks of bloodied Shardplate as prizes. Barbaric monsters. Navani felt cold. Cold, numb. How could this happen? After finally finally making that stone-headed man see her as a woman, rather than as a sister. And now And now She set her jaw against the tears. I dont believe it. I understand that the news is difficult. Sadeas waved for an attendant to fetch her a chair. I wish I had not been forced to bring it to you. Dalinar and I well, I have known him for many years, and while we did not always see the same sunrise, I considered him an ally. And a friend. He cursed softly, looking eastward. They will pay for this. I will see that they pay. He seemed so earnest that Navani found herself wavering. Poor Renarin, pale-faced and wide-eyed, seemed stunned beyond the means to speak. When the chair arrived, Navani refused it, so Renarin sat, earning a glance of disapproval from Sadeas. Renarin grasped his head in his hands, staring at the ground. He was trembling. Hes highprince now, Navani realized. No. No. He was only highprince if she accepted the idea that Dalinar was dead. And he wasnt. He couldnt be. Sadeas had all of the bridges, she thought, looking down at the lumberyard. Navani stepped out into the late-afternoon sunlight, feeling its heat on her skin. She walked up to her attendants. Brushpen, she said to Makal, who carried a satchel with Navanis possessions. The thickest one. And my burn ink. The short, plump woman opened the satchel, taking out a long brushpen with a knob of hog bristles on the end as wide as a mans thumb. Navani took it. The ink followed. Around her, the guards stared as Navani took the pen and dipped it into the