Cenns eyes glazed over. He stopped breathing. Lyndels face had been smashed in. Cyns eyes smoldered, and he wasnt breathing either. Kaladin knelt in Cenns blood, horrified, as Toorim and the two subsquads formed around him, looking as stunned as Kaladin felt. This isnt possible. II Screaming. Kaladin looked up. Amarams banner of green and burgundy flew just to the south. The Shardbearer had cut through Kaladins squad heading straight for that banner. Spearmen fled in disarray, screaming, scattering before the Shardbearer. Anger boiled inside of Kaladin. Sir? Toorim asked. Kaladin picked up his spear and stood. His knees were covered with Cenns blood. His men regarded him, confused, worried. They stood firm in the midst of the chaos; as far as Kaladin could tell, they were the only men who werent fleeing. The Shardbearer had turned the ranks to mush. Kaladin thrust his spear into the air, then began to run. His men bellowed a war cry, falling into formation behind him, charging across the flat rocky ground. Spearmen in uniforms of both colors scrambled out of the way, dropping spears and shields. Kaladin picked up speed, legs pumping, his squad barely keeping pace. Just aheadright before the Shardbearera pocket of green broke and ran. Amarams honor guard. Faced by a Shardbearer, they abandoned their charge. Amaram himself was a solitary man on a rearing horse. He wore silvery plate armor that looked so commonplace when compared with the Shardplate. Kaladins squad charged against the flow of the army, a wedge of soldiers going the wrong way. The only ones going the wrong way. Some of the fleeing men paused as he charged past, but none joined. Ahead, the Shardbearer rode past Amaram. With a sweep of the Blade, the Shardbearer slashed through the neck of Amarams mount. Its eyes burned into two great pits, and it toppled, jerking fitfully, Amaram still in its saddle. The Shardbearer wheeled his destrier in a tight circle, then threw himself from horseback at full speed. He hit the ground with a grinding sound, somehow remaining upright and skidding to a halt. Kaladin redoubled his speed. Was he running to get vengeance, or was he trying to protect his highmarshal? The only lighteyes who had ever shown a modicum of humanity? Did it matter? Amaram struggled in his bulky plate, the carcass of the horse on his leg. The Shardbearer raised his Blade in two hands to finish him off. Coming at the Shardbearer from behind, Kaladin screamed and swung low