Elhokar sighed. Chasing the assassin is only an idle thought right now. Perhaps we wont need it. I hear that your eff orts with Sadeas have been fruitful. They have indeed, Your Majesty, Sadeas said, sounding proudperhaps a little smug. Though Dalinar still insists on using his own, slow bridges. Sometimes, my forces are nearly wiped out before he arrives. This would work better if Dalinar would use modern bridge tactics. The waste of life Dalinar said. Is acceptable, Sadeas said. Theyre mostly slaves, Dalinar. Its an honor for them to have a chance to participate in some small way. I doubt they see it in that light. I wish youd at least try my way, Sadeas continued. What weve been doing so far has worked, but I worry that the Parshendi will continue to send two armies against us. I dont relish the idea of fighting both on my own before you arrive. Dalinar hesitated. That would be a problem. But to give up the siege bridges? Well, why not a compromise? Elhokar said. Next plateau assault, Uncle, you let Sadeass bridgemen help you for the initial march to the contested plateau. Sadeas has plenty of extra bridge crews he could lend you. He could still rush on ahead with a smaller army, but youd follow more quickly than you have been, using his bridge crews. That would be the same as using my own bridge crews, Dalinar said. Not necessarily, Elhokar said. Youve said that the Parshendi can rarely set up and fire on you once Sadeas engages them. Sadeass men can start the assault as usual, and you can join once hes secured a foothold for you. Yes Sadeas said, thoughtful. The bridgemen you use will be safe, and you wont be costing any additional lives. But youll arrive at the plateau to help me twice as quickly. What if you cant distract the Parshendi well enough? Dalinar asked. What if they still set up archers to fire on my bridgemen when I cross? Then well retreat, Sadeas said with a sigh. And well call it a failed experiment. But at least well have tried. This is how you get ahead, old friend. You try new things. Dalinar scratched his chin in thought. Oh, go on, Dalinar, Elhokar said. He took your suggestion to attack together. Try it once his way. Very well, Dalinar said. We will see how it works. Excellent, Elhokar said, standing. And now, I believe Ill go congratulate