Lirin watched out the window. I dont know. We should leave. It makes sense. We have the money. We arent wanted here. The citylord hates us, the people mistrust us, the Stormfather himself seems inclined to knock us down. There was something in Lirins voice. Regret? I tried very hard to leave once, Lirin said, more softly. But theres a tie between a mans home and his heart. Ive cared for these people, Kal. Delivered their children, set their bones, healed their scrapes. Youve seen the worst of them, these last few years, but there was a time before that, a good time. He turned to Kal, clasping his hands in front of him, the carriage rattling. Theyre mine, son. And Im theirs. Theyre my responsibility, now that Wistiow has gone. I cant leave them to Roshone. Even if they like what hes doing? Particularly because of that. Lirin raised a hand to his head. Stormfather. It sounds more foolish now that I say it. No. I understand. I think. Kal shrugged. I guess, well, they still come to us when theyre hurt. They complain about how unnatural it is to cut into a person, but they still come. I used to wonder why. And did you come to a conclusion? Kind of. I decided that in the end, theyd rather be alive to curse at you a few more days. Its what they do. Just like healing them is what you do. And they used to give you money. A man can say all kinds of things, but where he sets his spheres, thats where his heart is. Kal frowned. I guess they did appreciate you. Lirin smiled. Wise words. I keep forgetting that youre nearly a man, Kal. When did you go and grow up on me? That night when we were nearly robbed, Kal thought immediately. That night when you shone light on the men outside, and showed that bravery had nothing to do with a spear held in battle. Youre wrong about one thing, though, Lirin said. You told me that they did appreciate me. But they still do. Oh, they grumbletheyve always done that. But they also leave food for us. Kal started. They do? How do you think weve been eating these last four months? But Theyre frightened of Roshone, so theyre quiet about it. They left it for your mother when she went to clean or put it in the rain barrel when its empty. They tried to rob us. And those very men were among the ones who gave us food as well. Kal pondered that as the carriage arrived at the manor house. It had been a