Dalinar nodded to Havrom, and the battalionlord led the two of them to an audience tent near the side of the practice field. Adolin, puzzled, glanced at his father. I had Havrom gather the soldiers that Sadeas spoke to the other day, Dalinar said. The ones he interviewed while we were on our way to the plateau assault. Ah, Adolin said. Well want to know what he asked them. Yes, Dalinar said. He gestured for Adolin to enter before him, and they walked intailed by a few of Dalinars ardents. Inside, a group of ten soldiers waited on benches. They rose and saluted. At ease, Dalinar said, clasping plated hands behind his back. Adolin? Dalinar nodded toward the men, indicating that Adolin should take the lead in the questioning. Adolin stifled a sigh. Again? Men, we need to know what Sadeas asked you and how you responded. Dont worry, Brightlord, said one of the men, speaking with a rural northern Alethi accent. We didnt tell him nothing. The others nodded vigorously. Hes an eel, and we know it, another added. He is a highprince, Dalinar said sternly. You will treat him with respect. The soldier paled, then nodded. What, specifically , did he ask you? Adolin asked. He wanted to know our duties in the camp, Brightlord, the man said. Were grooms, you see. Each soldier was trained in one or two additional skills beyond those of combat. Having a group of soldiers who could care for horses was useful, as it kept civilians from plateau assaults. He asked around, said one of the men. Or, well, his people did. Found out we were in charge of the kings horse during the chasmfiend hunt. But we didnt say nothing, the first soldier repeated. Nothing to get you into trouble, sir. Were not going to give that eeer, that highprince, Brightlord sir, the rope to hang you, sir. Adolin closed his eyes. If they had acted this way around Sadeas, it would have been more incriminating than the cut girth itself. He couldnt fault their loyalty, but they acted as if they assumed Dalinar had done something wrong, and needed to defend him. He opened his eyes. I spoke to some of you before, I recall. But let me ask again. Did any of you see a cut strap on the kings saddle? The men looked at each other, shaking heads. No, Brightlord, one of the