Jasnahs alcove was occupied. Of course it was. Always working, Jasnah was. Shed be particularly bothered by having lost so much time over Shallans presumed suicide attempt. The lift felt rickety beneath Shallans feet as the parshmen lifted her up to Jasnahs level. She rode in silence, feeling disconnected from the world around her. Walking around through the palacethrough the city in only a robe? Confronting Jasnah Kholin again ? Hadnt she learned? But what did she have to lose? She walked down the familiar stone hallway to the alcove, weak blue sphere held before her. Jasnah sat at her desk. Her eyes looked uncharacteristically fatigued, dark circles underneath, her face stressed. She looked up and stiffened as she saw Shallan. You are not welcome here. Shallan walked in anyway, surprised by how calm she felt. Her hands should be shaking. Dont make me call the soldiers to get rid of you, Jasnah said. I could have you thrown in prison for a hundred years for what you did. Do you have any idea what The Soulcaster you wear is a fake, Shallan said quietly. It was a fake the whole time, even before I made the swap. Jasnah froze. I wondered why you didnt notice the switch, Shallan said, sitting in the rooms other chair. I spent weeks confused. Had you noticed, but decided to keep quiet in order to catch the thief? Hadnt you Soulcast in all that time? It didnt make any sense. Unless the Soulcaster I stole was a decoy. Jasnah relaxed. Yes. Very clever of you to realize that. I keep several decoys. Youre not the first to try to steal the fabrial, you see. I keep the real one carefully hidden, of course. Shallan took out her sketchpad and searched through for a specific picture. It was the image shed drawn of the strange place with the sea of beads, the floating flames, the distant sun in a black, black sky. Shallan regarded it for a moment. Then she turned it and held it up for Jasnah. The look of utter shock Jasnah displayed was nearly worth the night spent feeling sick and guilty. Jasnahs eyes bulged and she sputtered for a moment, trying to find words. Shallan blinked, taking a Memory of that. She couldnt help herself. Where did you find that? Jasnah demanded. What book described that scene to you? No book, Jasnah, Shallan said, lowering the picture. I visited that place. The night when I accidentally Soulcast the goblet in my room to blood, then