agree with what shed done, but that was the philosophy she found most reprehensible. Shallan sat here sketching, condemning Jasnah. But Shallan was the one who had betrayed a woman who had trusted her and taken her in. Now she was planning to commit heresy with the Soulcaster by using it although she was not an ardent. The Soulcaster itself lay in the hidden part of Shallans trunk. Three days, and Jasnah had said nothing about the disappearance. She wore the fake each day. She said nothing, acted no differently. Maybe she hadnt tried Soulcasting. Almighty send that she didnt go out and put herself into danger again, expecting to be able to use the fabrial to kill men who attacked her. Of course, there was one other aspect of that night that Shallan had to think of. She carried a concealed weapon that she hadnt used. She felt foolish for not even thinking of getting it out that night. But she wasnt accustomed to Shallan froze, realizing for the first time what shed been drawing. Not another scene from the alleyway, but a lavish room with a thick, ornamented rug and swords on the walls. A long dining table, set with a half-eaten meal. And a dead man in fine clothing, lying face-first on the floor, blood pooling around him. She jumped back, tossing aside the charcoal, then crumpled up the paper. Shaking, she moved over and sat down on the bed among the pictures. Dropping the crumpled drawing, she raised her fingers to her forehead, feeling the cold sweat there. Something was wrong with her, with her drawings. She had to get out. Escape the death, the philosophy and the questions. She stood and hurriedly strode into the main room of Jasnahs quarters. The princess herself was away researching, as always. She hadnt demanded that Shallan come to the Veil today. Was that because she realized that her ward needed time to think alone? Or was it because she suspected Shallan of stealing the Soulcaster, and no longer trusted her? Shallan hurried through the room. It was furnished only with the basics provided by King Taravangian. Shallan pulled open the door to the hallway, and nearly ran into a master-servant who had been reaching up to knock. The woman started, and Shallan let out a yelp. Brightness, the woman said, bowing immediately. Apologies. But one of your spanreeds is flashing. The woman held up the reed, affixed on the side with a small blinking ruby. Shallan breathed in and out, stilling her heart. Thank you, she said. She, like Jasnah, left her spanreeds in the care of servants because she was often away from her rooms, and was likely to miss any attempt to contact her. Still flustered, she was tempted to leave the thing and continue on her way. However, she did need to speak with her brothers, Nan Balat particularly, and