Kaladin wasnt certain why he elbowed his way up to the next bridge bridge tenwhere Sadeas was crossing. Perhaps he needed to see for certain that Sadeas wasnt wounded. Perhaps he was still stunned. This was treachery on a grand scale, terrible enough that it made Amarams betrayal of Kaladin seem almost trivial. Sadeas trotted his horse across the bridge, the wood clattering. He was accompanied by two lighteyed men in regular armor, and all three had their helms under their arms, as if they were on parade. The honor guard stopped Kaladin, looking hostile. He was still close enough to see that Sadeas was, indeed, completely unharmed. He was also close enough to study Sadeass proud face as he turned his horse and looked back at the Tower. The second Parshendi army swarmed Kholins army, trapping them. Even without that, Kholin had no bridges. He could not retreat. I told you, old friend, Sadeas said, voice soft but distinct, overlapping the distant screams. I said that honor of yours would get you killed someday. He shook his head. Then he turned his horse, trotting it away from the battlefield. Dalinar cut down a Parshendi warpair. There was always another to replace it. He set his jaw, falling into Windstance and taking the defensive, holding his little rise in the hillside and acting as a rock over which the oncoming Parshendi wave would have to break. Sadeas had planned this retreat well. His men hadnt been having trouble; theyd been ordered to fight in a way that they could easily disengage. And he had a full forty bridges to retreat across. Together, that made his abandonment of Dalinar happen quickly, by the scale of battles. Though Dalinar had immediately ordered his men to push forward, hoping to catch Sadeas while the bridges were still set, he hadnt been nearly quick enough. Sadeass bridges were pulling away, the entirety of his army now across. Adolin fought nearby. They were two tired men in Plate facing an entire army. Their armor had accumulated a frightening number of cracks. None were critical yet, but they did leak precious Stormlight. Wisps of it rose like the songs of dying Parshendi. I warned you not to trust him! Adolin bellowed as he fought, cutting down a pair of Parshendi, then taking a wave of arrows from a team of archers who had set up nearby. The arrows sprayed against Adolins armor, scratching the