three weeks, at least. How many bridge runs? Ten days, Moash said. Impossible, Kaladin said. My wounds Is why were so surprised to see you up and walking! Rock said, laughing. You must have bones like granite. Is my name you should be having! Kaladin leaned back against the wall. Nobody corrected Moash. An entire crew of men couldnt lose track of the weeks like that. Idolir and Treff? he asked. We lost them, Moash said, growing solemn. We did two bridge runs while you were unconscious. Nobody badly wounded, but two dead. Wewe didnt know how to help them. That made the men grow subdued. But death was the way of bridgemen, and they couldnt afford to dwell for long on the lost. Kaladin did decide, however, that hed need to train a few of the others in healing. But how was he up and walking? Had he been less injured than hed assumed? Hesitantly, he prodded at his side, feeling for broken ribs. Just a little sore. Other than the weakness, he felt as healthy as he ever had. Perhaps he should have paid a little more attention to his mothers religious teachings. As the men turned back to talking and celebrating, he noticed the looks they gave him. Respectful, reverent. They remembered what hed said before the highstorm. Looking back, Kaladin realized hed been a little delirious. It now seemed an incredibly arrogant proclamation, not to mention that it smelled of prophecy. If the ardents discovered that Well, he couldnt undo what hed done. Hed just have to continue. You were already balancing over a chasm, Kaladin thought to himself. Did you have to scale an even higher cliffside? A sudden, mournful horn call sounded across the camp. The bridgemen fell silent. The horn sounded twice more. Figures, Natam said. Were on duty? Kaladin asked. Yeah, Moash said. Line up! Rock snapped. You know what to do! Lets show Captain Kaladin that we havent forgotten how to do this. Captain Kaladin? Kaladin asked as the men lined up. Sure, gancho, Lopen said from beside him, speaking with that quick accent that seemed so at odds with his nonchalant attitude. They tried to make Rock bridgeleader, sure, but we just started calling you captain and him squadleader. Made Gaz angry. Lopen grinned. Kaladin nodded. The other men were so joyous, but he was finding it