I must. I hope to return. Ill do so if Im not killed. Probably will anyway. Apologize to your nephew for me. He wont be happy, Dalinar said. Hes fond of you. Yes, its one of his more admirable traits, Wit said. Alongside that of paying me, letting me eat his expensive food, and giving me opportunity to make sport of his friends. The cosmere, unfortunately, takes precedence over free food. Watch yourself, Dalinar. Life becomes dangerous, and youre at the center of it. Wit nodded once, then ducked into the night. He put his hood up, and soon Dalinar couldnt separate him from the darkness. Dalinar turned back to his meal. Sadeas is planning a revelation at the feast tonight, though I know not what it is. Wit was rarely wrongthough he was almost always odd. Was he really leaving, or would he still be in camp the next morning, laughing at the prank he had played on Dalinar? No, Dalinar thought. That wasnt a prank. He waved over a master-servant in black and white. Fetch my elder son for me. The servant bowed and withdrew. Dalinar ate the rest of his food in silence, glancing occasionally at Sadeas and Elhokar. They werent at the dining table any longer, and so Sadeass wife had joined them. Ialai was a curvaceous woman who reportedly dyed her hair. That indicated foreign blood in her familys pastAlethi hair always bred true, proportionate to how much Alethi blood you had. Foreign blood would mean stray hairs of another color. Ironically, mixed blood was far more common in lighteyes than darkeyes. Darkeyes rarely married foreigners, but the Alethi houses often needed alliances or money from outside. Food finished, Dalinar stepped down from the kings table onto the island proper. The woman was still playing her melancholy song. She was quite good. A few moments later, Adolin strode onto the kings island. He hurried over to Dalinar. Father? You sent for me? Stay close. Wit told me that Sadeas plans to make a storm of something tonight. Adolins expression darkened. Time to go, then. No. We need to let this play out. Father But you may prepare, Dalinar said softly. Just in case. You invited officers of our guard to the feast tonight? Yes, Adolin said. Six of them. They have my further invitation to the kings island. Pass the word. What of the Kings Guard?