and theyre ethnically Makabakidark-skinned, like myself. Their kingdom borders my own, and I visited there many times in my youth. It is a wondrous place, filled with exotic travelers. Sigzil grew more relaxed as he continued to talk. Their legal system is very lenient toward foreigners. A man who is not of their nationality cannot own a home or shop, but when you visit, you are treated as a relative who has traveled from afar, to be shown all kindness and leniency. A foreigner can take dinner at any residence he calls upon, assuming he is respectful and offers a gift of fruit. The people are most interested in exotic fruits. They worship Jezrien, though they dont accept him as a figure from the Vorin religion. They name him the only god. The Heralds arent gods, Teft scoffed. To you they arent, Sigzil said. Others regard them differently. The Emuli have what your scholars like to call a splinter religioncontaining some Vorin ideas. But to the Emuli, you would be the splinter religion. Sigzil seemed to find that amusing, though Teft just scowled. Sigzil continued in more and more detail, talking of the flowing gowns and head-wraps of the Emuli women, the robes favored by the men. The taste of the foodsaltyand the way of greeting an old friendby holding the left forefinger to the forehead and bowing in respect. Sigzil knew an impressive amount about them. Kaladin noticed him smiling wistfully at times, probably recalling his travels. The details were interesting, but Kaladin was more taken aback by the fact that this citywhich he had flown over in his dream weeks agowas actually real. And he could no longer ignore the strange speed at which he recovered from wounds. Something odd was happening to him. Something supernatural. What if it was related to the fact that everyone around him always seemed to die? He knelt down to begin rifling the pockets of the dead men, a duty the other bridgemen avoided. Spheres, knives, and other useful objects were kept. Personal mementoes like unburned prayers were left with the bodies. He found a few zircon chips, which he added to the pouch. Maybe Moash was right. If they could get this money out, could they bribe their way free of the camp? That would certainly be safer than fighting. So why was he so insistent on teaching the bridgemen to fight? Why hadnt he given any thought to sneaking the bridgemen out? He had lost Dallet and the others of his original squad in Amarams army. Did he think to compensate for that by training a new group of spearmen? Was this about saving men hed grown to love, or was it just about proving something to himself?