group of chulls snorted and rummaged at the rocks by their feet; harnessed to them were several enormous mobile bridges. Gallant and Adolins white stallion Sureblood were waiting, their reins held at the ready by grooms. Ryshadium hardly needed handlers. Once, Gallant had kicked open his stall and made his way to the staging grounds on his own when a groom had been too slow. Dalinar patted the midnight destrier on the neck, then swung into the saddle. He scanned the staging field, then raised his arm to give the command to move. However, he noticed a group of mounted men riding up to the staging field, led by a figure in dark red Shardplate. Sadeas. Dalinar stifled a sigh and gave the command to move out, though he himself waited for the Highprince of Information. Adolin came over on Sureblood, and he gave Dalinar a glance that seemed to say, Dont worry, Ill behave. As always, Sadeas was a model of fashion, his armor painted, his helm ornamented with a completely different metallic pattern than he had worn last time. This one was shaped like a stylized sunburst. It looked almost like a crown. Brightlord Sadeas, Dalinar said. This is an inconvenient time for your investigation. Unfortunately, Sadeas said, reining in. His Majesty is very eager to have answers, and I cannot stop my investigation, even for a plateau assault. I need to interview some of your soldiers. Ill do it on the way out. You want to come with us? Why not? I wont delay you. He glanced at the chulls, who lurched into motion, pulling the bulky bridges. I doubt that even were I to decide to crawl , I could slow you any further. Our soldiers need to concentrate on the upcoming battle, Brightlord, Adolin said. They should not be distracted. The kings will must be done, Sadeas said, shrugging, not even bothering to look at Adolin. Need I present the writ? Surely you dont intend to forbid me. Dalinar studied his former friend, looking into those eyes, trying to see into the mans soul. Sadeas lacked his characteristic smirk; he usually wore one of those when he was pleased with how a plot was going. Did he realize that Dalinar knew how to read his expressions, and so masked his emotions? No need to present anything, Sadeas. My men are at your disposal. If you have need of anything, simply ask. Adolin, with me. Dalinar turned Gallant and galloped down the line toward the front of the marching army. Adolin followed reluctantly, and Sadeas remained behind with his attendants.