Dalinar waved with his left hand as the armor bearers locked the gauntlet onto his right. He made a fist, tiny plates curving perfectly. The left gauntlet followed. Then the gorget went over his head, covering his neck, the pauldrons on his shoulders, and the helm on his head. Finally, the armor bearers affixed his cape to the pauldrons. Dalinar took a deep breath, feeling the Thrill build for the approaching battle. He strode from the war room, footfalls firm and solid . Attendants and servants scattered before him, making way. Wearing Shardplate again after a long period without was like waking up after a night of feeling groggy or disoriented. The spring of the step, the impetus the armor seemed to lend him, made him want to race down the hallway and And why not? He broke into a sprint. Teleb and the others cried out in surprise, rushing to keep up. Dalinar outpaced them easily, reaching the front gates of the complex and leaping through, throwing himself off the long steps leading down from his enclave. He exulted, grinning as he hung in the air, then slammed to the ground. The force cracked the stone beneath him, and he crouched into the impact. Before him, neat rows of barracks ran through his warcamp, formed in radials with a meeting ground and mess hall at the center of each battalion. His officers reached the top of the stairs, looking down with amazement. Renarin was with them, wearing his uniform that had never seen battle, his hand raised against the sunlight. Dalinar felt foolish. Was he a youth just given his first taste of Shardplate? Back to work. Stop playing. Perethom, his infantrylord, saluted as Dalinar strode up. Second and Third Battalions are on duty today, Brightlord. Forming ranks to march. First Bridge Squad is gathered, Brightlord, Havarahthe bridgelord said, striding up. He was a short man, with some Herdazian blood in him as evidenced by his dark, crystalline fingernails, though he didnt wear a spark- flicker. I have word from Ashelem that the archery company is ready. Cavalry? Dalinar asked. And where is my son? Here, Father, called a familiar voice. Adolinhis Shardplate painted a deep Kholin bluemade his way through the gathering crowd. His visor was up, and he looked eager, though when he met Dalinars eyes, he glanced away immediately. Dalinar held up a hand, quieting several officers who were trying to give him reports. He strode to Adolin, and the youth looked up, meeting his gaze. You said what you felt you must, Dalinar said. And Im not sorry I did, Adolin replied. But I am sorry for how, and