underestimate him. They were quick to accept duels with him, and some non- Shardbearers challenged him. By tradition, the kings own Shardplate and Blade were available for a large fee to those who both had his favor and the wish to duel a Shardbearer. Dalinar shivered at the thought of someone else wearing his Plate or holding Oathbringer. It was unnatural. And yet, the lending of the kings Blade and Plate or before the kingship had been restored, the lending of a highprinces Blade and Platewas a strong tradition. Even Gavilar had not broken it, though he had complained about it in private. Adolin dodged another blow, but he had begun to move into Windstances offensive forms. Resi wasnt ready for thisthough he managed to hit Adolin once on the right pauldron, the blow was a glancing one. Adolin advanced, Blade sweeping in a fluid pattern. Resi backed away, falling into a parrying postureStonestance was one of the few to rely on those. Adolin batted his opponents Blade away, knocking it out of stance. Resi reset, but Adolin knocked it away again. Resi grew sloppier and sloppier getting back into stance and Adolin began to strike, hitting him on one side, then on the other. Small, quick blows, meant to unnerve. They worked. Resi bellowed and threw himself into one of Stonestances characteristic overhand blows. Adolin handled it perfectly, dropping his Blade to one hand, raising his left arm and taking the blow on his unharmed vambrace. It cracked badly, but the move allowed Adolin to bring his own Blade to the side and strike Resis cracked left cuisse. The thigh plate shattered with the sound of ripping metal, pieces blasting away, trailing smoke, glowing like molten steel. Resi stumbled back; his left leg could no longer bear the weight of the Shardplate. The match was over. More important duels might go for two or three broken plates, but that grew dangerous. The highjudge stood, calling an end. Resi stumbled away, ripping off his helm. His curses were audible. Adolin saluted his enemy, tapping the blunt edge of his Blade to his forehead, then dismissing the Blade. He bowed to the king. Other men sometimes went into the crowd to brag or accept accolades, but Adolin retreated to the preparation tent. Talented indeed, Elhokar said. And such a proper lad, Sadeas said, sipping his drink. Yes, Dalinar said. At times, I wish there were peace, simply so that Adolin could dedicate himself to his dueling. Sadeas sighed. More talk of abandoning the war, Dalinar? Thats not what I meant.