up from the ground. Kaladin sliced off the cleanest portion of bandage hed used on Gadol and tied it around Hobbers wound. He hated the uncleanliness of it, but there was no other choice. Then he set Dabbids arm with some arrows he had the other bridgemen fetch, using Dabbids shirt to tie them in place. Then, finally, Kaladin sat back against the lip of stone, letting out a long, fatigued breath. Bangs of metal on metal and shouts of soldiers rang from behind. He felt so tired. Too tired to even close his eyes. He just wanted to sit and stare at the ground forever. Teft settled down beside him. The grizzled man had the watergourd, which still had some liquid in the bottom. Drink, lad. You need it. We should clean the wounds of the other men, Kaladin said numbly. They took scrapesI saw some had cutsand they should Drink, Teft said, his crackly voice insistent. Kaladin hesitated, then drank the water. It tasted strongly bitter, like the plant from which it had been taken. Whered you learn to heal men like that? Teft asked. Several of the nearby bridgemen turned toward him at the question. I wasnt always a slave, Kaladin whispered. These things you did, they wont make a difference, Rock said, walking up. The massive Horneater squatted down. Gaz makes us leave behind wounded who cannot walk. Is standing order from above. Ill deal with Gaz, Kaladin said, resting his head back against the stone. Go return that knife to the body you took it off. I dont want to be accused of thievery. Then, when the time comes to leave, I want two men in charge of Leyten and two men in charge of Hobber. Well tie them to the top of the bridge and carry them. At the chasms, youll have to move quickly and untie them before the army crosses, then retie them at the end. Well also need someone to lead Dabbid, if his shock hasnt passed. Gaz wont stand for this thing, Rock said. Kaladin closed his eyes, declining further argument. The battle was a long one. As evening approached, the Parshendi finally retreated, jumping away across the chasms with their unnaturally powerful legs. There was a chorus of shouts from the Alethi soldiers, who had won the day. Kaladin forced himself to his feet and went looking for Gaz. It would be a while yet before they could get the chrysalis openit was like pounding on stonebut he needed to deal with the bridge sergeant. He found Gaz watching from well behind the battle lines. He glanced at Kaladin with his one eye. How much of that blood is yours?