Yes, but I pretended you did. Which is virtually the same thing. He frowned. Brightness Shallan, the ardents are worried about you. The souls of the Almightys children are our responsibility. Jasnah has a history of corrupting those with whom she comes in contact. Really? Shallan asked, genuinely interested. Other wards? It is not my place to say. We can move to another place. Im firm on this point, Brightness. I will not speak of it. Write it, then. Brightness he said, voice taking on a suffering tone. Oh, all right, she said, sighing. Well, I can assure you, my soul is quite well and thoroughly un infected. He sat back, then cut another piece of bread. She found herself studying him again, but grew annoyed at her own girlish foolishness. She would soon be returning to her family, and he was only visiting her for reasons relating to his Calling. But she truly was fond of his company. He was the only one here in Kharbranth that she felt she could really talk to. And he was handsome; the simple clothing and shaved head only highlighted his strong features. Like many young ardents, he kept his beard short and neatly trimmed. He spoke with a refined voice, and he was so well-read. Well, if youre certain about your soul, he said, turning back to her. Then perhaps I could interest you in our devotary. I have a devotary. The Devotary of Purity. But the Devotary of Purity isnt the place for a scholar. The Glory it advocates has nothing to do with your studies or your art. A person doesnt need a devotary that focuses directly on their Calling. It is nice when the two coincide, though. Shallan stifled a grimace. The Devotary of Purity focused onas one might imagineteaching one to emulate the Almightys honesty and wholesomeness. The ardents at the devotary hall hadnt known what to make of her fascination with art. Theyd always wanted her to do sketches of things they found pure. Statues of the Heralds, depictions of the Double Eye. Her father had chosen the devotary for her, of course. I just wonder if you made an informed choice, Kabsal said. Switching devotaries is allowed, after all. Yes, but isnt recruitment frowned upon? Ardents competing for members? It is indeed frowned upon. A deplorable habit. But you do it anyway?