once a friend, and I think he can be again. The cool stones of the Soulcast chamber seemed to hold the chill of the spring weather. It continued to refuse to slip into summer, but at least it hadnt slid into winter either. Elthebar promised that it would not do sobut, then, the stormwardens promises were always filled with caveats. The Almightys will was mysterious, and the signs couldnt always be trusted. He accepted stormwardens now, though when theyd first grown popular, hed rejected their aid. No man should try to know the future, nor lay claim to it, for it belonged only to the Almighty himself. And Dalinar wondered how stormwardens could do their research without reading. They claimed they didnt, but hed seen their books filled with glyphs. Glyphs. They werent meant to be used in books; they were pictures. A man who had never seen one before could still understand what one meant, based on its shape. That made interpreting glyphs different from reading. Stormwardens did a lot of things that made people uncomfortable. Unfortunately, they were just so useful . Knowing when a highstorm might strike, well, that was just too tempting an advantage. Even though stormwardens were frequently wrong, they were more often right. Renarin knelt beside the hearth, inspecting the fabrial that had been installed there to warm the room. Navani had already arrived. She sat at Dalinars elevated writing desk, scribbling a letter; she waved a distracted greeting with her reed as Dalinar entered. She wore the fabrial he had seen her displaying at the feast a few weeks back; the multilegged contraption was attached to her shoulder, gripping the cloth of her violet dress. I dont know, Father, Adolin said, closing the door. Apparently he was still thinking about Sadeas. I dont care if hes listening to The Way of Kings . Hes just doing it to make you look less closely at the plateau assaults so that his clerks can arrange his cut of the gemhearts more favorably. Hes manipulating you. Dalinar shrugged. Gemhearts are secondary, son. If I can reforge an alliance with him, then its worth nearly any cost. In a way, Im the one manipulating him. Adolin sighed. Very well. But Im still going to keep a hand on my money pouch when hes near. Just try not to insult him, Dalinar said. Oh, and something else. I would like you to take extra care with the Kings Guard. If there are soldiers we know for certain are loyal to me, put those in charge of guarding Elhokars rooms. His words about a conspiracy have me worried. Surely you dont give them credence, Adolin said.