I assure you, I was never in real danger, Elhokar said. Thanks, in part, to the protection of the Kings Guard and the vigilance of my uncle. However, I believe it wise to treat all threats with due prudence and seriousness. Therefore, I am appointing Brightlord Torol Sadeas to be Highprince of Information, charging him to unearth the truth regarding this attempt on my life. Dalinar blinked in shock. Then he closed his eyes and let out a soft groan. Unearth the truth, Navani said skeptically. Sadeas? Blood of myHe thinks Im ignoring the threats to him, so hes looking to Sadeas instead. Well, I suppose thats all right, she said. I kind of trust Sadeas. Navani, Dalinar said, opening his eyes. The incident happened on a hunt I planned, under the protection of my guard and my soldiers. The kings horse was prepared by my grooms. He publicly asked me to look into this strap business, and now hes just taken the investigation away from me. Oh dear. She understood. This was nearly the same thing as Elhokar proclaiming that he suspected Dalinar. Any information Sadeas unearthed regarding this assassination attempt could only reflect unfavorably on Dalinar. When Sadeass hatred of Dalinar and his love of Gavilar conflicted, which would win? But the vision. It said to trust him. Elhokar sat back down, and the buzz of conversation resumed across the island at a higher pitch. The king seemed oblivious of what he had just done. Sadeas was smiling broadly. He rose from his place, bidding farewell to the king, then began mingling. You still argue he isnt a bad king? Navani whispered. My poor, distracted, oblivious boy. Dalinar stood up, then walked down the table to where the king continued to eat. Elhokar looked up. Ah, Dalinar. I suspect youll want to give Sadeas your aid. Dalinar sat down. Sadeass half-eaten meal still sat on the table, brass plate scattered with chunks of meat and torn flatbread. Elhokar, Dalinar forced out, I just spoke to you a few days ago. I asked to be Highprince of War, and you said it was too dangerous! It is, Elhokar said. I spoke to Sadeas about it, and he agreed. The highprinces will never stand for someone being put over them in war. Sadeas mentioned that if I started with something less threatening, like appointing someone to Highprince of Information, it might prepare the others for what you want to do. Sadeas suggested this, Dalinar said flatly.