around the litter to get water, theyd discover the sack full of armor. Kaladin moved quickly, snatching the waterskin from the soldiers hand. You have your own water crews. The soldier looked at Kaladin, as if completely unable to believe that a bridgeman was standing up to him. He scowled darkly, lowering his spear to his side, its butt against the ground. I dont want to wait. How unfortunate, Kaladin said, stepping right up to the man, meeting him eye to eye. Silently, he cursed the idiot. If it turned into a scuffle The soldier hesitated, even more astonished to see such an aggressive threat from a bridgeman. Kaladin wasnt as thick-armed as this man, but he was a finger or two taller. The soldiers uncertainty showed in his face. Just back down, Kaladin thought. But no. Backing down from a bridgeman while his squad was watching? The man made a fist, knuckles cracking. Within seconds, the entire bridge crew was there. The soldier blinked as Bridge Four formed around Kaladin in an aggressive inverted wedge pattern, moving naturallysmoothlyas Kaladin had trained them. Each one made fists, giving the soldier ample chance to see that the heavy lifting had trained these men to a physical level beyond that of the average soldier. The man glanced back at his squad, as if looking for support. Do you want to spark a fight now, friend? Kaladin asked softly. If you hurt the bridgemen, I wonder who Sadeas will make run this bridge. The man glanced back at Kaladin, was silent for a moment, then scowled, cursed, and stalked away. Probably full of crem anyway, he muttered, rejoining his team. The members of Bridge Four relaxed, though they received more than a few appreciative looks from the other soldiers in line. For once, there was something other than scowls. Hopefully they wouldnt realize that a squad of bridgemen had quickly and accurately made a battle formation commonly used in spear fighting. Kaladin waved for his men to stand down, nodding his thanks. They fell back, and Kaladin tossed the recovered waterskin back to Lopen. The shorter man smirked wryly. Ill keep a tighter grip on these things from now on, gancho. He eyed the soldier who had tried to take the water. What? Kaladin asked. Well, Ive got a cousin in the water crews, you see, Lopen said. And Im thinking that he might owe me a favor on account of this one time I helped his sisters friend escape a guy looking for her. You do have a lot of cousins.