As I expected, I have found my way to Kharbranth, Danlan read. The secrets I seek are too obscure to be contained even in the Palanaeum, but I find hints. Tantalizing fragments. Is Elhokar well? Hints? Fragments? Of what? She had a penchant for drama, Jasnah did, though she wasnt as flamboyant about it as the king. Your brother tried very hard to get himself killed by a chasmfiend a few weeks back, Dalinar replied. Adolin smiled at that, leaning with his shoulder against the bookcase. But evidently the Heralds watch over him. He is well, though your presence here is sorely missed. Im certain he could use your counsel. He is relying heavily on Brightness Lalai to act as clerk. Perhaps that would make Jasnah return. There was little love lost between herself and Sadeass cousin, who was the kings head scribe in the queens absence. Danlan scratched away, writing the words. To the side, Navani cleared her throat. Oh, Dalinar said, add this: Your mother is here in the warcamps again. A short time later, the pen wrote of its own volition. Send my mother my respect. Keep her at arms length, Uncle. She bites. From the side, Navani sniffed, and Dalinar realized he hadnt signaled that Navani was actually listening. He blushed as Danlan continued speaking. I cannot speak of my work via spanreed, but Im growing increasingly concerned. There is something here, hidden by the sheer number of accrued pages in the historical record. Jasnah was a Veristitalian. Shed explained it to him once; they were an order of scholars who tried to find the truth in the past. They wished to create unbiased, factual accounts of what had happened in order to extrapolate what to do in the future. He wasnt clear on why they thought themselves different from regular historians. Will you be returning? Dalinar asked. I cannot say, Danlan read after the reply came. I do not dare stop my research. But a time may soon come when I dare not stay away either. What? Dalinar thought. Regardless, Danlan continued, I have some questions for you. I need you to describe for me again what happened when you met that first Parshendi patrol seven years ago. Dalinar frowned. Despite the Plates augmentation, his digging had left him feeling tired. But he didnt dare sit on one of the rooms chairs while wearing his Plate. He took off one of his gauntlets, though, and ran his hand through his hair. He wasnt fond of this topic, but part of him was glad of the distraction. A