That was horrible, Shallan finally said, hand still held to her breast. It was one of the most awful things Ive ever experienced. You killed four men. Four men who were planning to beat, rob, kill, and possibly rape us. You tempted them into coming for us! Did I force them to commit any crimes? You showed off your gemstones. Can a woman not walk with her possessions down the street of a city? At night? Shallan asked. Through a rough area? Displaying wealth? You all but asked for what happened! Does that make it right? Jasnah said, leaning forward. Do you condone what the men were planning to do? Of course not. But that doesnt make what you did right either! And yet, those men are off the street. The people of this city are that much safer. The issue that Taravangian has been so worried about has been solved, and no more theatergoers will fall to those thugs. How many lives did I just save? I know how many you just took, Shallan said. And through the power of something that should be holy! Philosophy in action. An important lesson for you. You did all this just to prove a point, Shallan said softly. You did this to prove to me that you could. Damnation, Jasnah, how could you do something like that? Jasnah didnt reply. Shallan stared at the woman, searching for emotion in those expressionless eyes. Stormfather. Did I ever really know this woman? Who is she, really? Jasnah leaned back, watching the city pass. I did not do this just to prove a point, child. I have been feeling for some time that I took advantage of His Majestys hospitality. He doesnt realize how much trouble he could face for allying himself with me. Besides, men like those There was something in her voice, an edge Shallan had never heard before. What was done to you? Shallan wondered with horror. And who did it? Regardless, Jasnah continued, tonights actions came about because I chose this path, not because of anything I felt you needed to see. However, the opportunity also presented a chance for instruction, for questions. Am I a monster or am I a hero? Did I just slaughter four men, or did I stop four murderers from walking the streets? Does one deserve to have evil done to her by consequence of putting herself where evil can reach her? Did I have a right to defend myself? Or was I just looking for an excuse to end lives? I dont know, Shallan whispered. You will spend the next week researching it and thinking on it. If you wish