I suppose, Dalinar said, inspecting the towerlike length of rock. We could send scouts to check. Scouts? Bah. I need a run, Uncle. Ill bet you five full broams that I can beat you to the top. And with that, the king galloped away in a thunder of hooves, leaving behind a shocked group of lighteyes, attendants, and guards. Storm it! Dalinar cursed, kicking his horse into motion. Adolin, you have command! Secure the next plateau, just in case. His son, who had been lagging behind, nodded sharply. Dalinar galloped after the king, a figure in golden armor and a long blue cape. Hoofbeats pounded the stone, rock formations whipping past. Ahead, the steep, spike-like spire of rock rose from the lip of the plateau. Such formations were common out here on the Shattered Plains. Curse that boy. Dalinar still thought of Elhokar as a boy, though the king was in his twenty-seventh year. But sometimes he acted like a boy. Why couldnt he give more warning before leaping into one of these stunts? Still, as Dalinar rode, he admitted to himself that it did feel good to charge freely, helm off, face to the wind. His pulse picked up as he got into the race, and he forgave its impetuous beginning. For the moment, Dalinar let himself forget his troubles and the words that had been echoing in his head. The king wanted a race? Well, Dalinar would give him one. He charged past the king. Elhokars stallion was a good breed, but it could never match Gallant, who was a full Ryshadium, two hands taller and much stronger than an ordinary horse. The animals chose their own riders, and only a dozen men in all of the warcamps were so fortunate. Dalinar was one, Adolin another. In seconds, Dalinar reached the formations base. He threw himself from the saddle while Gallant was still moving. He hit hard, but the Shardplate absorbed the impact, stone crunching beneath his metal boots as he skidded to a stop. Men who hadnt ever worn Plateparticularly those who were accustomed to its inferior cousin, simple plate and mailcould never understand. Shardplate wasnt merely armor. It was so much more. He ran to the bottom of the rock formation as Elhokar galloped up behind. Dalinar leapedPlate-assisted legs propelling him up some eight feetand grabbed a handhold in the stone. With a heave, he pulled himself up, the Plate lending him the strength of many men. The Thrill of contest began to rise within him. It wasnt nearly as keen as the Thrill of battle, but it was a worthy substitute. Rock scraped below. Elhokar had begun to climb as well. Dalinar didnt look down. He kept his eyes fixed on the small natural platform at the top of the