He reached forward, taking her hand. Its here, around us. Dont forget that, Shallan, no matter what she says. I wont, she said, realizing how hed guided the conversation. Hed said he believed her, but still hed gone through his proofs. It was touching and annoying at the same time. She did not like condescension. But, then, could one really blame an ardent for preaching? Kabsal looked up suddenly, releasing her hand. I hear footsteps. He stood, and Shallan turned as Jasnah walked into the alcove, followed by a parshman carrying a basket of books. Jasnah showed no surprise at the presence of the ardent. Im sorry, Brightness Jasnah, Shallan said, standing. He You are not a captive, child, Jasnah interrupted brusquely. You are allowed visitors. Just be careful to check your skin for tooth marks. These types have a habit of dragging their prey out to sea with them. Kabsal flushed. He moved to gather up his things. Jasnah waved for the parshman to place her books on the table. Can that plate reproduce a cymatic pattern corresponding to Urithiru, priest? Or do you only have patterns for the standard four cities? Kabsal looked at her, obviously shocked to realize that she knew exactly what the plate was for. He picked up his book. Urithiru is just a fable. Odd. One would think that your type would be used to believing in fables. His face grew redder. He finished packing his things, then nodded curtly to Shallan and walked hastily from the room. If I may say so, Brightness, Shallan said, that was exceptionally rude of you. Im prone to such bouts of incivility, Jasnah said. Im certain he has heard what Im like. I simply wanted to make sure he got what he expected. You havent acted that way toward other ardents in the Palanaeum. The other ardents in the Palanaeum havent been working to turn my ward against me. He wasnt Shallan trailed off. He was simply worried about my soul. Has he asked you to try to steal my Soulcaster yet? Shallan felt a sudden spike of shock. Her hand went to the pouch at her waist. Did Jasnah know? No, Shallan told herself. No, listen to the question. He didnt. Watch, Jasnah said, opening a book. He will eventually. Ive experience with his type. She looked at Shallan, and her expression softened. Hes not interested in you. Not in any of the ways you think. In particular, this isnt about your soul. Its about me.