Just this afternoon. And why did you return? Dalinar asked stiffly. I was under the impression that you were going to aid the queen in protecting the kings interests in Alethkar. Oh, Dalinar, Navani said, voice fond. So stiff, as always. Adolin, dear, how goes courtship? Dalinar snorted. He continues to change partners like hes in a dance that involves particularly quick music. Father! Adolin objected. Well, good for you, Adolin, Navani said. Youre too young to get tied down. The purpose of youth is to experience variety while it is still interesting. She glanced at Dalinar. It isnt until we get older that we should be forced to be boring. Thank you, Aunt, Adolin said with a grin. Excuse me. I need to go tell Renarin that youve returned. He hurried away, leaving Dalinar standing awkwardly across the table from Navani. Am I that much of a threat, Dalinar? Navani asked, raising an eyebrow at him. Dalinar glanced down, realizing that he was still gripping his dining knife a wide, serrated blade that could double as a weapon in a pinch. He let it clatter to the table, then winced at the noise. All of the confidence hed felt speaking with Adolin seemed gone in a heartbeat. Compose yourself! he thought. Shes just family. Every time he spoke with Navani, he felt as if he were facing a predator of the most dangerous breed. Mathana, Dalinar said, realizing they were still standing on opposite sides of the narrow table. Perhaps we should move to He trailed off as Navani waved to an attending girl who was barely old enough to wear a womans sleeve. The child rushed forward, bearing a low stool. Navani pointed to the spot beside her, a spot only a few feet from the table. The child hesitated, but Navani pointed more insistently and the child set the stool down. Navani sat gracefully, not sitting at the kings tablewhich was a masculine dining placebut certainly sitting near enough to be challenging protocol. The serving girl withdrew. At the end of the table, Elhokar noticed his mothers actions, but said nothing. One did not reprove Navani Kholin, not even if one were king. Oh, sit down, Dalinar, she said, voice growing testy. We have matters of some moment to discuss. Dalinar sighed, but sat. The seats around them were still empty, and both the