Fool boy! Dalinar said, pointing. Go! But Youre unarmored and unarmed! Dalinar bellowed. Get back before you get yourself killed! Renarin pulled his roan horse to a halt. GO! Renarin galloped away. Dalinar turned and ran toward Elhokar, Oathbringer misting into existence in his waiting hand. Elhokar continued to hack at the beasts lower torso, and sections of flesh blackened and died when the Shardblade struck. If he rammed the Shardblade in just right, he could stop the heart or lungs, but that would be difficult while the beast was upright. Adolinstalwart as alwayshad dismounted beside the king. He tried to stop the claws, striking at them as they fell. Unfortunately, there were four claws and only one of Adolin. Two swung at him at once, and though Adolin sliced a chunk out of one, he didnt see the other sweeping at his back. Dalinar called out too late. Shardplate snapped as the claw tossed Adolin into the air. He arced and hit in a tumble. His Plate didnt shatter, thank the Heralds, but the breastplate and side cracked widely, leaking trails of white smoke. Adolin rolled lethargically, hands moving. He was alive. No time to think about him now. Elhokar was alone. The beast struck, pounding the ground beside the king, knocking him off his feet. His blade vanished and Elhokar fell face-first on the stones. Something changed inside of Dalinar. Reservations vanished. Other concerns became meaningless. His brothers son was in danger. He had failed Gavilar, had lain drunk in his wine while his brother fought for his life. Dalinar should have been there to defend him. Only two things remained of his beloved brother, two things that Dalinar could protect in a hope to earn some form of redemption: Gavilars kingdom and Gavilars son. Elhokar was alone and in danger. Nothing else mattered. Adolin shook his head, dazed. He slammed his visor up, taking a gasp of fresh air to clear his mind. Fighting. They were fighting. He could hear men screaming, rocks shaking, an enormous bleating sound. He smelled something moldy. Greatshell blood.