much thought. Hed need every drop he could get. He climbed out and lifted another stone into the wagon. Rock was approaching; the large, tan-skinned Horneater carried an oblong stone that would have been too large for most of the bridgemen to handle alone. Rock shuffled forward slowly, Syl zipping around his head and occasionally landing on the rock to watch him. Kaladin climbed down and trotted across the uneven ground to help. Rock nodded in thanks. Together they hauled the stone to the wagon and set it down on the bed. Rock wiped his brow, turning his back to Kaladin. Sprouting from his pocket was a handful of reeds. Kaladin swiped them and tucked them beneath the tarp. What do we do if someone notices this thing we are doing? Rock asked casually. Explain that Im a weaver, Kaladin said, and that I thought Id weave myself a hat to keep off the sun. Rock snorted. I might do just that, Kaladin said. He wiped his brow. It would be nice in this heat. But best nobody sees. The mere fact that we want the reeds would probably be enough to make them deny them to us. This thing is true, Rock said, stretching and glancing upward as Syl zipped over in front of him. I miss the Peaks. Syl pointed, and Rock bowed his head in reverence before following after her. Once she had him going in the right direction, however, she flitted back to Kaladin, bobbing up into the air as a ribbon, then falling down to the side of the wagon and reforming her womanly shape, her dress fluttering around her. I, she declared, raising a finger, like him very much. Who? Rock? Yes, she said, folding her arms. He is respectful . Unlike others. Fine, Kaladin said, lifting another stone into the wagon. You can follow him around instead of bothering me. He tried not to show worry as he said it. He had grown accustomed to her company. She sniffed. I cant follow him. Hes too respectful. You just said you liked that. I do. Also, I detest it. She said that with unaffected frankness, as if oblivious of the contradiction. She sighed, sitting down on the side of the wagon. I led him to a patch of chull dung as a prank. He didnt even yell at me! He just looked at it, as if trying to figure out some hidden meaning. She grimaced. Thats not normal.