He blushed, and she realized shed said something that genuinely embarrassed him. She winced, cursing her tongue. Yes, he said. I do seek distinction. I shouldnt wish so badly to be the one who converts her. But I do. If she would just listen to my proof. Proof? I have real evidence that the Almighty exists. Id like to see it. Then she raised a finger, cutting him off. Not because I doubt his existence, Kabsal. Im just curious. He smiled. It will be my pleasure to explain. But first, would you like another slice of bread? I should say no, she said, and avoid excess, as my tutors trained me. But instead Ill say yes. Because of the jam? Of course, she said, taking the bread. How did your book of oracular preserves describe me? Impulsive and spontaneous? I can do that. If it means jam. He slathered a piece for her, then wiped his fingers on his cloth and opened his book, flipping through the pages until he reached one that had a drawing on it. Shallan slid closer for a better look. The picture wasnt of a person; it depicted a pattern of some kind. A triangular shape, with three outlying wings and a peaked center. Do you recognize this? Kabsal asked. It seemed familiar. I feel that I should. Its Kholinar, he said. The Alethi capital, drawn as it would appear from above. See the peaks here, the ridges there? It was built around the rock formation that was already there. He flipped the page. Heres Vedenar, capital of Jah Keved. This one was a hexagonal pattern. Akinah. A circular pattern. Thaylen City. A four-pointed star pattern. What does it mean? It is proof that the Almighty is in all things. You can see him here, in these cities. Do you see how symmetrical they are? The cities were built by men, Kabsal. They wanted symmetry because it is holy. Yes, but in each case they built around existing rock formations. That doesnt mean anything, Shallan said. I do believe, but I dont know if this is proof. Wind and water can create symmetry; you see it in nature all the time. The men picked areas that were roughly symmetrical, then designed their cities to make up for any flaws. He turned to his basket again, rummaging. He came out withof all things