weakly. There were ten slaves in the wagon, all men, scraggly-bearded and dirty. It was one of three wagons in their caravan through the Unclaimed Hills. The sun blazed reddish white on the horizon, like the hottest part of a smiths fire. It lit the framing clouds with a spray of color, paint thrown carelessly on a canvas. Covered in tall, monotonously green grass, the hills seemed endless. On a nearby mound, a small figure flitted around the plants, dancing like a fluttering insect. The figure was amorphous, vaguely translucent. Windspren were devious spirits who had a penchant for staying where they werent wanted. Hed hoped that this one had gotten bored and left, but as Kaladin tried to toss his wooden bowl aside, he found that it stuck to his fingers. The windspren laughed, zipping by, nothing more than a ribbon of light without form. He cursed, tugging on the bowl. Windspren often played pranks like that. He pried at the bowl, and it eventually came free. Grumbling, he tossed it to one of the other slaves. The man quickly began to lick at the remnants of the slop. Hey, a voice whispered. Kaladin looked to the side. A slave with dark skin and matted hair was crawling up to him, timid, as if expecting Kaladin to be angry. Youre not like the others. The slaves black eyes glanced upward, toward Kaladins forehead, which bore three brands. The first two made a glyphpair, given to him eight months ago, on his last day in Amarams army. The third was fresh, given to him by his most recent master. Shash , the last glyph read. Dangerous. The slave had his hand hidden behind his rags. A knife? No, that was ridiculous. None of these slaves could have hidden a weapon; the leaves hidden in Kaladins belt were as close as one could get. But old instincts could not be banished easily, so Kaladin watched that hand. I heard the guards talking, the slave continued, shuffling a little closer. He had a twitch that made him blink too frequently. Youve tried to escape before, they said. You have escaped before. Kaladin made no reply. Look, the slave said, moving his hand out from behind his rags and revealing his bowl of slop. It was half full. Take me with you next time, he whispered. Ill give you this. Half my food from now until we get away. Please. As he spoke, he attracted a few hungerspren. They looked like brown flies that flitted around the mans head, almost too small to see. Kaladin turned away, looking out at the endless hills and their shifting, moving grasses. He rested one arm across the bars and placed his head against it, legs still hanging out. Well? the slave asked.