You were wrong, Father, he thought. You said Id learn to deal with the deaths. And yet here I am. Years later. Same problem. The bridgemen fell in around him. Lopen approached with a waterskin. Kaladin hesitated, then accepted the skin, washing off his face and hands. The warm water splashed across his skin, then brought welcome coolness as it evaporated. He let out a deep breath, nodding thanks to the short Herdazian man. Lopen raised an eyebrow, then gestured to the pouch tied to his waist. He had recovered the newest pouch of spheres theyd stuck to the bridge with an arrow. This was the fourth time theyd done that, and had recovered them each without incident. Did you have any trouble? Kaladin asked. No, gancho, Lopen said, smiling widely. Easy as tripping a Horneater. I heard that, Rock said gruffly, standing in parade rest a short distance away. And the rope? Kaladin asked. I dropped the whole coil right over the side, Lopen said. But I didnt tie the end to anything. Just like you said. Good, Kaladin said. A rope dangling from a bridge would have just been too obvious. If Hashal or Gaz caught scent of what Kaladin was planning And where is Gaz? Kaladin thought. Why didnt he come on the bridge run? Lopen gave Kaladin the pouch of spheres, as if eager to be rid of the responsibility. Kaladin accepted it, stuffing it into his trouser pocket. Lopen retreated, and Kaladin fell back into parade rest. The plateau on the other side of the chasm was long and thin, with steep slopes on the sides. Just as in the last few battles, Dalinar Kholin helped Sadeass force. He always arrived late. Perhaps he blamed his slow, chull-pulled bridges. Very convenient. His men often had the luxury of crossing without archery fire. Sadeas and Dalinar won more battles this way. Not that it mattered to the bridgemen. Many people were dying on the other side of the chasm, but Kaladin didnt feel a thing for them. No itch to heal them, no desire to help. Kaladin could thank Hav for that, for training him to think in terms of us and them. In a way, Kaladin had learned what his father had talked about. In the wrong way, but it was something. Protect the us, destroy the them. A soldier had to think like that. So Kaladin hated the Parshendi. They were the enemy. If he hadnt learned to divide his mind like that, war would have destroyed him. Perhaps it had done so anyway. As he watched the battle, he focused on one thing in particular to distract himself. How did the Parshendi treat their dead? Their actions seemed irregular.