carried a weapon strapped to his back. Some wore dark red and black beards tied with bits of rock, while others were clean-shaven. As Kaladin watched, the front row of Parshendi knelt down. They held shortbows, arrows nocked. Not longbows intended to launch arrows high and far. Short, recurve bows to fire straight and quick and strong. An excellent bow to use for killing a group of bridgemen before they could lay their bridge. Arriving is the worst part. Now, finally, the real nightmare began. Gaz hung back, bellowing at the bridge crews to keep going. Kaladins instincts screamed at him to get out of the line of fire, but the momentum of the bridge forced him forward. Forced him down the throat of the beast itself, its teeth poised to snap closed. Kaladins exhaustion and pain fled. He was shocked alert. The bridges charged forward, the men beneath them screaming as they ran. Ran toward death. The archers released. The first wave killed Kaladins leathery-faced friend, dropping him with three separate arrows. The man to Kaladins left fell as wellKaladin hadnt even seen his face. That man cried out as he dropped, not dead immediately, but the bridge crew trampled him. The bridge got noticeably heavier as men died. The Parshendi calmly drew a second volley and launched. To the side, Kaladin barely noticed another of the bridge crews floundering. The Parshendi seemed to focus their fire on certain crews. That one got a full wave of arrows from dozens of archers, and the first three rows of bridgemen dropped and tripped those behind them. Their bridge lurched, skidding on the ground and making a sickening crunch as the mass of bodies fell over one another. Arrows zipped past Kaladin, killing the other two men in the front line with him. Several other arrows smacked into the wood around him, one slicing open the skin of his cheek. He screamed. In horror, in shock, in pain, in sheer bewilderment. Never before had he felt so powerless in a battle. Hed charged enemy fortifications, hed run beneath waves of arrows, but hed always felt a measure of control. Hed had his spear, hed had his shield, he could fight back. Not this time. The bridge crews were like hogs running to the slaughter. A third volley flew, and another of the twenty bridge crews fell. Waves of arrows came from the Alethi side as well, falling and striking the Parshendi. Kaladins bridge was almost to the chasm. He could see the black eyes of the Parshendi on the other side, could make out the features of their lean marbled faces. All around him, bridgemen were screaming in pain, arrows cutting them