among the camp followers. Never parshmen. They were too valuable, and besides, the Parshendi were some kind of cousins to the parshmen. Better not to give the parshman workers in camp the sight of their kind fighting. Sometimes a soldier would be thrown into a bridge crew. That only happened if hed done something extremely bad, like striking an officer. Acts that would earn a hanging in many armies meant being sent to the bridge crews here. Supposedly, if you survived a hundred bridge runs, youd be released. It had happened once or twice, the stories said. It was probably just a myth, intended to give the bridgemen some tiny hope for survival. Kaladin and the others walked past the newcomers, gazes down, and began hooking their ropes to the next log. Bridge Four needs some men, Gaz said, rubbing his chin. Four always needs men, Laresh said. Dont worry. I brought a special batch for it. He nodded toward a second group of recruits, much more ragtag, walking up behind. Kaladin slowly stood upright. One of the prisoners in that group was a boy of barely fourteen or fifteen. Short, spindly, with a round face. Tien? he whispered, taking a step forward. He stopped, shaking himself. Tien was dead. But this newcomer looked so familiar, with those frightened black eyes. It made Kaladin want to shelter the boy. Protect him. Buthed failed. Everyone hed tried to protectfrom Tien to Cennhad ended up dead. What was the point? He turned back to dragging the log. Kaladin, Syl said, landing on the log, Im going to leave. He blinked in shock. Syl. Leave? Butshe was the last thing he had left. No, he whispered. It came out as a croak. Ill try to come back, she said. But I dont know what will happen when I leave you. Things are strange. I have odd memories. No, most of them arent even memories. Instincts. One of those tells me that if I leave you, I might lose myself. Then dont go, he said, growing terrified. I have to, she said, cringing. I cant watch this anymore. Ill try to return. She looked sorrowful. Goodbye. And with that, she zipped away into the air, adopting the form of a tiny group of tumbling, translucent leaves. Kaladin watched her go, numb. Then he turned back to hauling the log. What else could he do?