It doesnt work, Kaladin said. I learned that lesson long ago. Long ago? You cannot be older than eighteen years, deserter. It was a good guess. He was nineteen. Had it really only been four years since hed joined Amarams army? Kaladin felt as if hed aged a dozen. You are young, Tvlakv continued. You could escape this fate of yours. Men have been known to live beyond the slaves brandyou could pay off your slave price, you see? Or convince one of your masters to give you your freedom. You could become a free man again. It is not so unlikely. Kaladin snorted. Ill never be free of these brands, Tvlakv. You must know that Ive triedand failedto escape ten times over. Its more than these glyphs on my head that makes your mercenaries wary. Past failure does not prove that there is not chance in the future, yes? Im finished. I dont care. He eyed the slaver. Besides, you dont actually believe what youre saying. I doubt a man like you would be able to sleep at night if he thought the slaves he sold would be free to seek him out one day. Tvlakv laughed. Perhaps, deserter. Perhaps you are right. Or perhaps I simply think that if you were to get free, you would hunt down the first man who sold you to slavery, you see? Highlord Amaram, was it not? His death would give me warning so I can run. How had he known? How had he heard about Amaram? Ill find him, Kaladin thought. Ill gut him with my own hands. Ill twist his head right off his neck, Ill Yes, Tvlakv said, studying Kaladins face, so you were not so honest when you said you do not thirst for vengeance. I see. How do you know about Amaram? Kaladin said, scowling. Ive changed hands a half-dozen times since then. Men talk. Slavers more than most. We must be friends with one another, you see, for nobody else will stomach us. Then you know that I didnt get this brand for deserting. Ah, but it is what we must pretend, you see? Men guilty of high crimes, they do not sell so well. With that shash glyph on your head, it will be difficult enough to get a good price for you. If I cannot sell you, then youwell, you will not wish for that status. So we will play a game together. I will say you are a deserter. And you will say nothing. It is an easy game, I think. Its illegal. We are not in Alethkar, Tvlakv said, so there is no law. Besides, desertion was the official reason for your sale. Claim otherwise, and you will gain nothing but a reputation for dishonesty. Nothing besides a headache for you.