was considered to be of great worth. Now that same man would be derided as a coward. She shook her head. It has been centuries coming, this change. It should terrify us. We could do with more men like Taravangian, and I shall require you to never call him dull again, not even in passing. Yes, Brightness, Shallan said, bowing her head. Did you really believe the things you said? About the Almighty? Jasnah was quiet for a moment. I do. Though perhaps I overstated my conviction. The Assuredness Movement of rhetorical theory? Yes, Jasnah said. I suppose that it was. I must be careful not to put my back toward you as I read today. Shallan smiled. A true scholar must not close her mind close on any topic, Jasnah said, no matter how certain she may feel. Just because I have not yet found a convincing reason to join one of the devotaries does not mean I never will. Though each time I have a discussion like the one today, my convictions grow firmer. Shallan bit her lip. Jasnah noticed the expression. You will need to learn to control that, Shallan. It makes your feelings obvious. Yes, Brightness. Well, out with it. Just that your conversation with the king was not entirely fair. Oh? Because of his, well, you know. His limited capacity. He did quite remarkably, but didnt make the arguments that someone more versed in Vorin theology might have. And what arguments might such a one have made? Well, Im not very well trained in that area myself. But I do think that you ignored, or at least minimized, one vital part of the discussion. Which is? Shallan tapped at her breast. Our hearts, Brightness. I believe because I feel something, a closeness to the Almighty, a peace that comes when I live my faith. The mind is capable of projecting expected emotional responses. But didnt you yourself argue that the way we actthe way we feel about right and wrongwas a defining attribute of our humanity? You used our innate morality to prove your point. So how can you discard my feelings? Discard them? No. Regard them with skepticism? Perhaps. Your feelings, Shallanhowever powerfulare your own. Not mine. And what I feel is that spending my life trying to earn the favor of an unseen, unknown, and