trying to hit the Shardbearers helm. The man ducked, going down on one knee, letting Szeths Blade cleave empty air. Szeth leaped backward as the Shardbearer swung upward with his Blade, slicing into the ceiling. Szeth didnt own a set of Plate himself, and didnt care to. His Lashings interfered with the gemstones that powered Shardplate, and he had to choose one or the other. As the Shardbearer turned, Szeth sprinted forward across the ceiling. As expected, the Shardbearer swung again, and Szeth leaped to the side, rolling. He came up from his roll and flipped, Lashing himself to the floor again. He spun to land on the ground behind the Shardbearer. He slammed his Blade into his opponents open back. Unfortunately, there was one major advantage Plate offered: It could block a Shardblade. Szeths weapon hit solidly, causing a web of glowing lines to spread out across the back of the armor, and Stormlight began to leak free from them. Shardplate didnt dent or bend like common metal. Szeth would have to hit the Shardbearer in the same location at least once more to break through. Szeth danced out of range as the Shardbearer swung in anger, trying to cut at Szeths knees. The tempest within Szeth gave him many advantagesincluding the ability to quickly recover from small wounds. But it would not restore limbs killed by a Shardblade. He rounded the Shardbearer, then picked a moment and dashed forward. The Shardbearer swung again, but Szeth briefly Lashed himself to the ceiling for lift. He shot into the air, cresting over the swing, then immediately Lashed himself back to the floor. He struck as he landed, but the Shardbearer recovered quickly and executed a perfect follow-through stroke, coming within a finger of hitting Szeth. The man was dangerously skilled with that Blade. Many Shardbearers depended too much on the power of their weapon and armor. This man was different. Szeth jumped to the wall and struck at the Shardbearer with quick, terse attacks, like a snapping eel. The Shardbearer fended him off with wide, sweeping counters. His Blades length kept Szeth at bay. This is taking too long! Szeth thought. If the king slipped away into hiding, Szeth would fail in his mission no matter how many people he killed. He ducked in for another strike, but the Shardbearer forced him back. Each second this fight lasted was another for the kings escape. It was time to be reckless. Szeth launched into the air, Lashing himself to the other end of the hallway and falling feet-first toward his adversary. The Shardbearer didnt hesitate to swing, but Szeth Lashed himself down at an angle,