owned by and loyal to your father. But he is not your religious superior. No. But he is the Almightys guardian of this people, set to watch me and make certain I dont rise above my station. Kadash pursed his lips. It is a delicate balance we walk, bright one. Do you know much of the Hierocracy, the War of Loss? The church tried to seize control, Adolin said, shrugging. The priests tried to conquer the worldfor its own good, they claimed. That was part of it, Kadash said. The part we speak of most often. But the problem goes much deeper. The church back then, it clung to knowledge. Men were not in command of their own religious paths; the priests controlled the doctrine, and few members of the Church were allowed to know theology. They were taught to follow the priests. Not the Almighty or the Heralds, but the priests. He began walking, leading Adolin around the back rim of the temple chamber. They passed statues of the Heralds, five male, five female. In truth, Adolin knew very little of what Kadash was saying. Hed never had much of a mind for history that didnt relate directly to the command of armies. The problem, bright one, Kadash said, was mysticism. The priests claimed that common men could not understand religion or the Almighty. Where there should have been openness, there was smoke and whispers. The priests began to claim visions and prophecies, though such things had been denounced by the Heralds themselves. Voidbinding is a dark and evil thing, and the soul of it was to try to divine the future. Adolin froze. Wait, youre saying Dont get ahead of me please, bright one, Kadash assured, turning back toward him. When the priests of the Hierocracy were cast down, the Sunmaker made a point of interrogating them and going through their correspondences with one another. It was discovered that there had been no prophecies. No mystical promises from the Almighty. That had all been an excuse, fabricated by the priests to placate and control the people. Adolin frowned. Where are you going with this, Kadash? As close as I dare to the truth, bright one, the ardent said. As I cannot be as blunt as you. You think my fathers visions are fabrications, then. I would never accuse my highprince of lying, Kadash said. Or even of feebleness. But neither can I condone mysticism or prophecy in any form. To do so would be to deny Vorinism. The days of the priests are gone. The days of lying to the people, of keeping them in darkness, are gone. Now, each man