mass of red and black at the center of the plateau, now pressed on two sides by the Alethi. Sadeas bridge crews waited on a western plateau, ignored, while the new force of Parshendi crossed from the north onto the battlefield. Stormfather, but they can jump, Dalinar thought, watching the Parshendi span the gap in powerful leaps. Six years of fighting had shown Dalinar that human soldiersparticularly if lightly armoredcould outrun Parshendi troops if they had to go more than a few dozen yards. But those thick, powerful Parshendi legs could send them far when they leaped. Not a single Parshendi lost his footing as they crossed the chasm. They approached the chasm at a trot, then dashed with a burst of speed for about ten feet, launching themselves forward. The new force pushed south, directly into Sadeass army. Raising a hand against the bright white sunlight, Dalinar found he could make out Sadeass personal banner. It was directly in the path of the oncoming Parshendi force; he tended to remain at the back of his armies, in a secure position. Now, that position suddenly became the front lines, and Sadeass other troops were too slow to disengage and react. He didnt have any support. Sadeas! Dalinar thought, stepping right up to the lip of the stone, his cape streaming behind him in the breeze. I need to send him my reserve spearmen But no, theyd be too slow. The spearmen couldnt get to him. But someone mounted might be able to. Gallant! Dalinar bellowed, throwing himself off the rock formation. He fell to the rocks below, Plate absorbing the shock as he hit, cracking the stone. Stormlight puffed up around him, rising from his armor, and the greaves cracked slightly. Gallant pulled away from his minders, galloping across the stones at Dalinars call. As the horse approached, Dalinar grabbed the saddle-holds and heaved himself up and into place. Follow if you can, he bellowed at his honor guard, and send a runner to tell my son he now commands our army! Dalinar reared Gallant and galloped alongside the perimeter of the battlefield. His guard called for their horses, but theyd have difficulty keeping up with a Ryshadium. So be it. Fighting soldiers became a blur to Dalinars right. He leaned low in the saddle, wind hissing as it blew over his Shardplate. He held a hand out and summoned Oathbringer. It dropped into his hand, steaming and frosted, as he turned Gallant around the western tip of the battlefield. By design, the original Parshendi army lay between his force and Sadeass. He didnt have time to round them. So, taking a deep breath, Dalinar struck out through the middle of it.