Plate, though his bulbous face and ruddy complexion weakened the effect. Sadeas and the king flaunted their Plate. Andwell, perhaps Adolin did too. Hed had his painted blue, a few ornamentations welded onto the helm and pauldrons to give an extra look of danger. How could you not show off when wearing something as grand as Shardplate? Adolin took another drink, listening to the king talk about his excitement for the hunt. Only one Shardbearer in the processionindeed, only one Shardbearer in the entirety of the ten armiesused no paint or ornamentations on his Plate. Dalinar Kholin. Adolins father preferred to leave his armor its natural slate-grey color. Dalinar rode beside the king, his face somber. He rode with his helm tied to his saddle, exposing a square face topped by short black hair that had gone white at the temples. Few women had ever called Dalinar Kholin handsome; his nose was the wrong shape, his features blocky rather than delicate. It was the face of a warrior. He rode astride a massive black Ryshadium stallion, one of the largest horses that Adolin had ever seenand while the king and Sadeas looked regal in their armor, somehow Dalinar managed to look like a soldier. To him, the Plate was not an ornament. It was a tool. He never seemed to be surprised by the strength or speed the armor lent him. It was as if, for Dalinar Kholin, wearing his Plate was his natural stateit was the times without that were abnormal. Perhaps that was one reason hed earned the reputation of being one of the greatest warriors and generals who ever lived. Adolin found himself wishing, passionately, that his father would do a little more these days to live up to that reputation. Hes thinking about the visions, Adolin thought, regarding his fathers distant expression and troubled eyes. It happened again last night, Adolin said softly to Renarin. During the highstorm. I know, Renarin said. His voice was measured, controlled. He always paused before he replied to a question, as if testing the words in his mind. Some women Adolin knew said Renarins ways made them feel as if he were dissecting them with his mind. Theyd shiver when they spoke of him, though Adolin had never found his younger brother the least bit discomforting. What do you think they mean? Adolin asked, speaking quietly so only Renarin could hear. Fathersepisodes. I dont know. Renarin, we cant keep ignoring them. The soldiers are talking. Rumors are spreading through all ten armies! Dalinar Kholin was going mad. Whenever a highstorm came, he fell to the