impressed. Two weeks and youre already working together as well as some teams I trained for months. Im pleased. And proud. Go get something to drink and take a break. Well do one or two more runs before work detail. It was stone-gathering duty again, but that was nothing to complain about. Hed convinced the men that lifting the stones would improve their strength, and had enlisted the few he trusted the most to help gather the knobweed, the means by which he continued tojust barelykeep the men supplied with extra food and build his stock of medical supplies. Two weeks. An easy two weeks, as the lives of bridgemen went. Only two bridge runs, and on one theyd gotten to the plateau too late. The Parshendi had escaped with the gemheart before theyd even arrived. That was good for bridgemen. The other assault hadnt been too bad, by bridgeman numbers. Two more dead: Amark and Koolf. Two more wounded: Narm and Peet. A fraction of what the other crews had lost, but still too many. Kaladin tried to keep his expression optimistic as he walked to the water barrel and took a ladle from one of the men, drinking it down. Bridge Four would drown in its own wounded. They were only thirty strong, with five wounded who drew no pay and had to be fed out of the knobweed income. Counting those whod died, theyd taken nearly thirty percent casualties in the weeks hed begun trying to protect them. In Amarams army, that rate of casualties would have been catastrophic. Back then, Kaladins life had been one of training and marching, punctuated by occasional frenzied bursts of battle. Here, the fighting was relentless. Every few days. That kind of thing could would wear an army down. There has to be a better way, Kaladin thought, swishing the lukewarm water in his mouth, then pouring another ladle on his head. He couldnt continue to lose two men a week to death and wounds. But how could they survive when their own officers didnt care if they lived or died? He barely kept himself from throwing the ladle into the barrel in frustration. Instead, he handed it to Skar and gave him an encouraging smile. A lie. But an important one. Gaz watched from the shadow of one of the other bridgeman barracks. Syls translucent figureshaped now like floating knobweed fluffflitted around the bridge sergeant. Eventually, she made her way over to Kaladin, landing on his shoulder, taking her female form. Hes planning something, she said. He hasnt interfered, Kaladin said. He hasnt even tried to stop us from having the nightly stew.