men in Roshar. How does that help stability? Sometimes, Taravangian said, you must tear down a structure to build a new one with stronger walls. He turned around, looking out over the ocean. And we are going to need strong walls in the coming years. Very, very strong walls. Your words are like the hundred doves.  Easy to release, difficult to keep,  Taravangian said, speaking the words in Shin. Szeth looked up sharply. This man spoke the Shin language and knew his peoples proverbs? Odd to find in a stonewalker. Odder to find in a murderer. Yes, I speak your language. Sometimes I wonder if the Lifebrother himself sent you to me. To bloody myself so that you wouldnt have to, Szeth said. Yes, that sounds like something one of your Vorin gods would do. Taravangian fell quiet. Get up, he finally said. Szeth obeyed. He would always obey his master. Taravangian led him to a door set into the side of the study. The aged man pulled a sphere lamp off the wall, lighting a winding stairwell of deep, narrow steps. They followed it and eventually came to a landing. Taravangian pushed open another door and entered a large room that wasnt on any of the palace maps that Szeth had purchased or bribed a look at. It was long, with wide railings on the sides, giving it a terraced look. Everything was painted white. It was filled with beds. Hundreds and hundreds of them. Many were occupied. Szeth followed the king, frowning. An enormous hidden room, cut into the stone of the Conclave? People bustled about wearing coats of white. A hospital? Szeth said. You expect me to find your humanitarian eff orts a redemption for what you have commanded of me? This is not humanitarian work, Taravangian said, walking forward slowly, white-and-orange robes rustling. Those they passed bowed to him with reverence. Taravangian led Szeth to an alcove of beds, each with a sickly person in it. There were healers working on them. Doing something to their arms. Draining their blood. A woman with a writing clipboard stood near the beds, pen held, waiting for something. What? I dont understand, Szeth said, watching in horror as the four patients grew pale. Youre killing them, arent you? Yes. We dont need the blood; it is merely a way to kill slowly and easily.