Vengeance Pact! Dalinar gripped the table and nearly rose to his feet. But he stopped himself. Let them speak if they wish, he said, turning back to his meal, stabbing a chunk of peppered chicken with his knife and raising it to his lips. Did you really do it? Adolin asked. Is that what you talked about at the meeting with the king two days back? It is, Dalinar admitted. That elicited a groan from Adolin. I was worried already. When I Adolin, Dalinar interjected. Do you trust me? Adolin looked at him, the youths eyes wide, honest, but pained. I want to. Storms, Father. I really want to. What I am doing is important. It must be done . Adolin leaned in, speaking softly. And what if they are delusions? What if youre justgetting old. It was the first time someone had confronted him with it so directly. I would be lying if I didnt admit that Id considered it, but there was no sense in second-guessing myself. I believe theyre real. I feel theyre real. But This is not the place for this discussion, son, Dalinar said. We can talk of it later, and I will listen toand consideryour objections. I promise. Adolin drew his lips to a line. Very well. You are right to be worried for our reputation, Dalinar said, resting an elbow on the table. I had assumed that Elhokar would have the tact to keep our conversation quiet, but I should have asked him to do so directly. You were right about his reaction, by the way. I realized during the conversation he would never retreat, so I changed to another tactic. Which is? Winning the war, Dalinar said firmly. No more scuffling over gemhearts. No more patient, indefinite siege. We find a way to lure a large number of Parshendi onto the Plains, then execute an ambush. If we can kill a large enough number of them, we destroy their capacity to wage war. Failing that, we find a way to strike at their center and kill or capture their leaders. Even a chasmfiend stops fighting when its been decapitated. The Vengeance Pact would be fulfilled, and we could go home. Adolin took a long moment considering, then he nodded sharply. All right. No objections? Dalinar asked. Normally, his elder son had plenty. You just asked me to trust you, Adolin said. Besides, striking harder at the Parshendi? Thats a tactic I can get behind. Well need a good plan, though a way to counter the very objections you yourself raised six years ago.