I never promised it would work, Moash. If youve got a better idea, go ahead and share it. Moash hesitated. Well, if you really do teach us the spear like you promised, then I guess I dont care. Kaladin glanced about, warily checking to see if Gaz or any bridgemen from other crews were nearby. Keep quiet, Kaladin muttered to Moash. Dont speak of that outside of the chasms. The rain had almost stopped; soon the clouds would break. Moash glared at him, but remained silent. You dont really think theyd let you have a Shardblade, do you? Sigzil said. Any man can win a Shardblade. Moash said. Slave or free. Lighteyes or dark. Its the law. Assuming they follow the law, Kaladin said with a sigh. Ill do it somehow, Moash repeated. He glanced to the side, where Rock was closing up his razor and wiping the rainwater from his bald head. The Horneater approached them. I have heard of this place you spoke of, Sigzil, Rock said. Babatharnam. My cousin cousin cousin visited there one time. They have very tasty snails. That is a long distance to travel for a Horneater, Sigzil noted. Nearly same distance as for an Azish, Rock said. Actually, much more, since you have such little legs! Sigzil scowled. I have seen your kind before, Rock said, folding his arms. What? Sigzil asked. Azish? We are not so rare. No, not your race, Rock said. Your type. What is it they are called? Visiting places around the land, telling others of what they have seen? A Worldsinger. Yes, is the right name. No? Sigzil froze. Then he suddenly stood up straight and stalked away from the barrack without looking back. Now why is he acting like this thing? Rock asked. I am not ashamed of being cook. Why is he ashamed of being Worldsinger? Worldsinger? Kaladin asked. Rock shrugged. I do not know much. Are strange people. Say they must travel to each kingdom and tell the people there of other kingdoms. Is a kind of storyteller, though they are thinking of themselves as much more. Hes probably some kind of brightlord in his country, Moash said. The way he talks. Wonder how he ended up with us cremlings. Hey, Dunny said, joining them. Whatd you do to Sigzil? He promised to