Kaladins, the skin around the scar faded to white. What was that glyphpair?  Sas morom , Kaladin said. It was the highlords district where the man had originally been branded. The man looked up with shock. Hey! You know glyphs? Several of the slaves nearby stirred at this oddity. You must have an even better story than I thought, friend. Kaladin stared out over those grasses blowing in the mild breeze. Whenever the wind picked up, the more sensitive of the grass stalks shrank down into their burrows, leaving the landscape patchy, like the coat of a sickly horse. That windspren was still there, moving between patches of grass. How long had it been following him? At least a couple of months now. That was downright odd. Maybe it wasnt the same one. They were impossible to tell apart. Well? the man prodded. Why are you here? There are many reasons why Im here, Kaladin said. Failures. Crimes. Betrayals. Probably the same for most every one of us. Around him, several of the men grunted in agreement; one of those grunts then degenerated into a hacking cough. Persistent coughing, a part of Kaladins mind thought, accompanied by an excess of phlegm and fevered mumbling at night. Sounds like the grindings. Well, the talkative man said, perhaps I should ask a different question. Be more specific, thats what my mother always said. Say what you mean and ask for what you want. Whats the story of you getting that first brand of yours? Kaladin sat, feeling the wagon thump and roll beneath him. I killed a lighteyes. His unnamed companion whistled again, this time even more appreciative than before. Im surprised they let you live. Killing the lighteyes isnt why I was made a slave, Kaladin said. Its the one I didnt kill thats the problem. Hows that? Kaladin shook his head, then stopped answering the talkative mans questions. The man eventually wandered to the front of the wagons cage and sat down, staring at his bare feet. Hours later, Kaladin still sat in his place, idly fingering the glyphs on his forehead. This was his life, day in and day out, riding in these cursed wagons. His first brands had healed long ago, but the skin around the shash brand