You wanted to be able to save someone. Me, I want to kill somebody. Who? Moash hesitated, then shook his head. Maybe Ill say, someday. He reached out, grabbing Kaladin on the shoulder. Id surrendered my plans, but youve returned them to me. Ill guard you with my life, Kaladin. I swear it to you, by the blood of my fathers. Kaladin met Moashs intense eyes and nodded. All right, then. Go help Hobber and Yake. Theyre still off on their thrusts. Moash jogged off to do as told. He didnt call Kaladin sir, and didnt seem to regard him with the same unspoken reverence as the others. That made Kaladin more comfortable with him. Kaladin spent the next hour helping the men, one by one. Most of them were overeager, throwing themselves into their attacks. Kaladin explained the importance of control and precision, which won more fights than chaotic enthusiasm. They took it in, listening. More and more, they reminded him of his old spear squad. That set him thinking. He remembered how he had felt when originally proposing the escape plan to the men. Hed been looking for something to doa way to fight, no matter how risky. A chance. Things had changed. He now had a team he was proud of, friends he had come to love, and a possibilityperhaps for stability. If they could get the dodging and armor right, they might be reasonably safe. Maybe even as safe as his old spear squad had been. Was running still the best option? That is a worried face, a rumbling voice noted. Kaladin turned as Rock walked up and leaned against the wall near him, folding powerful forearms. Is the face of a leader, say I. Always troubled. Rock raised a bushy red eyebrow. Sadeas will never let us go, particularly not now that were so prominent. Alethi lighteyes considered it reprehensible for a man to let slaves escape; it made him seem impotent. Capturing those who ran away was essential to save face. You said this thing before, Rock said. We will fight the men he sends after us, will seek Kharbranth, where there are no slaves. From there, the Peaks, to my people who will welcome us as heroes! We might beat the first group, if hes foolish and sends only a few dozen men. But after that hell send more. And what of our wounded? Do we leave them here to die? Or do we take them with us and go that much more slowly? Rock nodded slowly. You are saying that we need a plan. Yes, Kaladin said. I guess thats what Im saying. Either that, or we stay