patterns beautiful. Almost irresistible Kaladin frowned. Hadnt he seen something like that in his dream? I bring up Babath because they have a curious system of rule there, Sigzil continued. You see, the elderly are given office. The older you are, the more authority you have. Everyone gets a chance to rule, if they live long enough. The king is called the Most Ancient. Sounds fair, Moash said, walking over to join Sigzil beneath the overhang. Better than deciding who rules based on eye color. Ah yes, Sigzil said. The Babath are very fair. Currently, the Monavakah Dynasty reigns. How can you have a dynasty if you choose your leaders based on their age? Kaladin asked. Its actually quite easy, Sigzil said. You just execute anyone who gets old enough to challenge you. Kaladin felt a chill. They do that? Yes, unfortunately, Sigzil said. There is a great deal of unrest in Babatharnam. It was dangerous to visit when we did. The Monavakahs make very certain that their family members live the longest; for fifty years, no one outside their family has become Most Ancient. All others have fallen through assassination, exile, or death on the battlefield. Thats horrible, Kaladin said. I doubt many would disagree. But I mention these horrors for a purpose. You see, it has been my experience that no matter where you go, you will find some who abuse their power. He shrugged. Eye color is not so odd a method, compared to many others I have seen. If you were to overthrow the lighteyes and place yourselves in power, Moash, I doubt that the world would be a very different place. The abuses would still happen. Simply to other people. Kaladin nodded slowly, but Moash shook his head. No. Id change the world, Sigzil. And I mean to. And how are you going to do that? Kaladin asked, amused. I came to this war to get myself a Shardblade, Moash said. And I still mean to do it, somehow. He blushed, then turned away. You joined up assuming theyd make you a spearman, didnt you? Kaladin asked. Moash hesitated, then nodded. Some of those who joined with me did become soldiers, but most of us got sent to the bridge crews. He glanced at Kaladin, expression growing dark. This plan of yours had better work, lordling. Last time I ran away, I got a beating. I was told if I tried again, Id get a slaves mark instead.