Kaladin stumbled away, feeling drained. Stunned. Numbed. His men rushed up, halting in a group, staring at the fallen man. They were amazed, even a little reverent. Is he dead? Alabet asked softly. He is, a voice said from the side. Kaladin turned. Amaram still lay on the ground, but he had pulled off his helm, dark hair and beard slicked with sweat. If he were still alive, his Blade would have vanished. His armor is falling off of him. He is dead. Blood of my ancestorsyou killed a Shardbearer! Oddly, Kaladin wasnt surprised. Just exhausted. He looked around at the bodies of men who had been his dearest friends. Take it, Kaladin, Coreb said. Kaladin turned, looking at the Shardblade, which sprouted at an angle into the stone, hilt toward the sky. Take it, Coreb said again. Its yours. Stormfather, Kaladin. Youre a Shardbearer ! Kaladin stepped forward, dazed, raising his hand toward the hilt of the Blade. He hesitated just an inch away from it. Everything felt wrong . If he took that Blade, hed become one of them. His eyes would even change, if the stories were right. Though the Blade glistened in the light, clean of the murders it had performed, for a moment it seemed red to him. Stained with Dallets blood. Toorims blood. The blood of the men who had been alive just moments before. It was a treasure. Men traded kingdoms for Shardblades. The handful of darkeyed men who had won them lived forever in song and story. But the thought of touching that Blade sickened him. It represented everything hed come to hate about the lighteyes, and it had just slaughtered men he loved dearly. He could not become a legend because of something like that. He looked at his reflection in the Blades pitiless metal, then lowered his hand and turned away. Its yours, Coreb, Kaladin said. I give it to you.  What?  Coreb said from behind. Ahead, Amarams honor guard had finally returned, apprehensively appearing at the top of the small hollow, looking ashamed. What are you doing? Amaram demanded as Kaladin passed him. What Arent you going to take the Blade? I dont want it, Kaladin said softly. Im giving it to my men. Kaladin walked away, emotionally exhausted, tears on his cheeks as he