Storming man, Teft thought, kneeling beside the feverish patient in his tousled blankets, eyes closed, face sweaty, body bound with a frightful number of bandages. Most were stained red. They didnt have the money to change them often. Skar kept watch currently. The short, strong-faced man sat at Kaladins feet. How is he? Teft asked. Skar spoke softly. He seems to be getting worse, Teft. I heard him mumble about dark shapes, thrashing and telling them to keep back. He opened his eyes. He didnt seem to see me, but he saw something . I swear it. Deathspren, Teft thought, feeling a chill. Kelek preserve us. Ill take a turn, Teft said, sitting. You go get something to eat. Skar stood, looking pale. It would crush the others spirit for Kaladin to survive the highstorm, then die of his wounds. Skar shuffled from the room, shoulders slumped. Teft watched Kaladin for a long while, trying to gather his thoughts, his emotions. Why now? he whispered. Why here? After so many have watched and waited, you come here? But of course, Teft was getting ahead of himself. He didnt know for certain. He only had assumptions and hopes. No, not hopes fears . He had rejected the Envisagers. And yet, here he was. He fished in his pocket and pulled out three small diamond spheres. It had been a long, long while since hed saved anything of his wages, but hed held on to these, thinking, worrying. They glowed with Stormlight in his hand. Did he really want to know? Gritting his teeth, Teft moved closer to Kaladins side, looking down at the unconscious mans face. You bastard, he whispered. You storming bastard. You took a bunch of hanged men and lifted them up just enough to breathe. Now youre going to leave them? I wont have it, you hear. I wont . He pressed the spheres into Kaladins hand, wrapping the limp fingers around them, then laying the hand on Kaladins abdomen. Then Teft sat back on his heels. What would happen? All the Envisagers had were stories and legends. Fools tales, Teft had called them. Idle dreams. He waited. Of course, nothing happened. Youre as big a fool as any, Teft, he told himself. He reached for Kaladins hand. Those spheres would buy a few drinks. Kaladin gasped suddenly, drawing in a short, quick, powerful breath. The glow in his hand faded. Teft froze, eyes widening. Wisps of Light began to rise from Kaladins body. It was faint, but there was no mistaking that glowing white Stormlight