Hey! Ton said, pulling the cup away. None of that, now! Oi aint done with this yet! If you were, said Took, he couldnt right pour it on his head, could he? Get im to do something else, Took, Ton griped. All right. Took pulled out his boot knife and tossed it to Szeth. Kurp, cut your arm up. Took said one of the other men, a sniffly man named Amark. That aint right, you know it. Took didnt rescind the order, so Szeth complied, taking the knife and cutting at the flesh of his arm. Blood seeped out around the dirty blade. Cut your throat, Took said. Now, Took! Amark said, standing. Oi wont Oh hush, you, Took said. Several groups of men from other tables were watching now. Youll see. Kurp, cut your throat. I am forbidden to take my own life, Szeth said softly in the Bav language. As Truthless, it is the nature of my suffering to be forbidden the taste of death by my own hand. Amark settled back down, looking sheepish. Dustmother, Ton said, he always talks like that? Like what? Took asked, taking a gulp from his mug. Smooth words, so soft and proper. Like a lighteyes. Yeah, Took said. Hes like a slave, only better cuz hes a Shin. He dont run or talk back or anything. Dont have to pay him, neither. Hes like a parshman, but smarter. Worth a right many spheres, Oid say. He eyed the other men. Could take him to the mines with you to work, and collect his pay. Hed do things you dont wanna. Muck out the privy, whitewash the home. All kinds of useful stuff. Well, howd you come by him, then? one of the other men asked, scratching his chin. Took was a transient worker, moving from town to town. Displaying Szeth was one of the ways he made quick friends. Oh, now, thats a story, Took said. Oi was traveling in the mountains down south, you know, and Oi heard this weird howling noise. It wasnt joust the wind, you know, and The tale was a complete fabrication; Szeths previous mastera farmer in a nearby villagehad traded Szeth to Took for a sack of seeds. The farmer had gotten him from a traveling merchant, who had gotten him from a cobbler whod won him in an illegal game of chance. There had been dozens before him. At first, the darkeyed commoners enjoyed the novelty of owning him. Slaves were far too expensive for most, and parshmen were even more