Even though theyd killed plenty of Parshendias many as a quarter of their originally estimated forces were deadthis was just taking so long. The siege had lasted six years, and could easily take another six. That troubled him. Obviously the Parshendi had expected to be besieged here. Theyd prepared supply dumps and had been ready to move their entire population to the Shattered Plains, where they could use these Heralds-forsaken chasms and plateaus like hundreds of moats and fortifications. Elhokar had sent messengers, demanding to know why the Parshendi had killed his father. They had never given an answer. Theyd taken credit for his murder, but had offered no explanation. Of late, it seemed that Dalinar was the only one who still wondered about that. Dalinar turned to the side; Elhokars attendants had retired to the pavilion, enjoying wine and refreshments. The large open-sided tent was dyed violet and yellow, and a light breeze ruffled the canvas. There was a small chance that another highstorm might arrive tonight, the stormwardens said. Almighty send that the army was back to the camp if one did come. Highstorms. Visions. Unite them. Did he really believe in what hed seen? Did he really think that the Almighty himself had spoken to him? Dalinar Kholin, the Blackthorn, a fearsome warlord? Unite them. At the pavilion, Sadeas walked out into the night. He had removed his helm, revealing a head of thick black hair that curled and tumbled around his shoulders. He cut an imposing figure in his Plate; he certainly looked much better in armor than he did wearing one of those ridiculous costumes of lace and silk that were popular these days. Sadeas caught Dalinars eyes, nodding slightly. My part is done, that nod said. Sadeas strolled for a moment, then reentered the pavilion. So. Sadeas had remembered the reason for inviting Vamah on the hunt. Dalinar would have to seek out Vamah. He made his way toward the pavilion. Adolin and Renarin lurked near the king. Had the lad given his report yet? It seemed likely that Adolin was tryingyet againto listen in on Sadeass conversations with the king. Dalinar would have to do something about that; the boys personal rivalry with Sadeas was understandable, perhaps, but counterproductive. Sadeas was chatting with the king. Dalinar made to go find Vamahthe other highprince was near the back of the pavilionbut the king interrupted him.