Kaladin frowned. Youve always been odd, for a spren. Even from the start. From the very start? He hesitated, thinking back. No, the first few times shed come, shed acted like any other windspren. Playing pranks on him, sticking his shoe to the floor, then hiding. Even when shed persisted with him during the months of his slavery, shed acted mostly like any other spren. Losing interest in things quickly, flitting around. Yesterday, I didnt know what death was, she said. Today I do. Months ago, I didnt know I was acting oddly for a spren, but I grew to realize that I was. How do I even know how a spren is supposed to act? She shrank down, looking smaller. Whats happening to me? What am I? I dont know. Does it matter? Shouldnt it? I dont know what I am either. A bridgeman? A surgeon? A soldier? A slave? Those are all just labels. Inside, Im me. A very different me than I was a year ago, but I cant worry about that, so I just keep moving and hope my feet take me where I need to go. You arent angry at me for bringing you that leaf? Syl, if you hadnt interrupted me, Id have stepped off into the chasm. That leaf was what I needed. It was the right thing, somehow. She smiled, and watched as Kaladin began to stretch. Once he finished, he stood and stepped out onto the street again, mostly recovered from his exhaustion. She zipped into the air and rested on his shoulder, sitting with her arms back and her feet hanging down in front, like a girl on the side of a cliff. Im glad youre not angry. Though I do think that youre to blame for whats happening to me. Before I met you, I never had to think about death or lying. Thats how I am, he said dryly. Bringing death and lies wherever I go. Me and the Nightwatcher. She frowned. That was he began. Yes, she said. That was sarcasm. She cocked her head. I know what sarcasm is. Then she smiled deviously. I know what sarcasm is! Stormfather, Kaladin thought, looking into those gleeful little eyes. That strikes me as ominous. So, wait, he said. This sort of thing has never happened to you before? I dont know. I cant remember anything farther back than about a year ago, when I first saw you. Really?