there. Dalinar and he had been stepping gingerly around one another since their argument in the Gallery. I understood in a moment of stillness, Litima read. Those candle flames were like the lives of men. So fragile. So deadly. Left alone, they lit and warmed. Let run rampant, they would destroy the very things they were meant to illuminate. Embryonic bonfires, each bearing a seed of destruction so potent it could tumble cities and dash kings to their knees. In later years, my mind would return to that calm, silent evening, when I had stared at rows of living lights. And I would understand. To be given loyalty is to be infused like a gemstone, to be granted the frightful license to destroy not only ones self, but all within ones care. Litima fell still. It was the end of the sequence. Thank you, Brightness Litima, Dalinar said. That will do. The woman bowed her head respectfully. She gathered her youthful ward from the side of the room and they withdrew, leaving the book on the lectern. That sequence had become one of Dalinars favorites. Listening to it often comforted him. Someone else had known, someone else had understood, how he felt. But today, it didnt bring the solace it usually did. It only reminded him of Adolins arguments. None had been things Dalinar hadnt considered himself, but being confronted with them by someone he trusted had shaken everything. He found himself staring at his maps, smaller copies of those that hung in the Gallery. They had been recreated for him by the royal cartographer, Isasik Shulin. What if Dalinars visions really were just phantasms? Hed often longed for the glory days of Alethkars past. Were the visions his minds answer to that, a subconscious way of letting himself be a hero, of giving himself justification for doggedly seeking his goals? A disturbing thought. Looked at another way, those phantom commands to unify sounded a great deal like what the Hierocracy had said when it had tried to conquer the world five centuries before. Dalinar turned from his maps and walked across the room, his booted feet falling on a soft rug. Too nice a rug. Hed spent the better part of his life in one warcamp or another; hed slept in wagons, stone barracks, and tents pulled tight against the leeward side of stone formations. Compared with that, his present dwelling was practically a mansion. He felt as if he should cast out all of this finery. But what would that accomplish? He stopped at the lectern and ran his fingers along the thick pages filled with lines in violet ink. He couldnt read the words, but he could almost feel them, emanating from the page like Stormlight from a sphere. Were the words of this