draw arrows toward me and can make rocks stick together. The Light makes me stronger and faster, and it heals my wounds. How much stronger does it make you? Sigzil said. How much weight can the rocks bear after you stick them together, and how long do they remain bonded? How much faster do you get? Twice as fast? A quarter again as fast? How far away can an arrow be when you draw it toward you, and can you draw other things as well? Kaladin blinked. I I dont know. Well, it seems pretty important to know that kind of stuff, Skar said, rubbing his chin. We can do tests, Rock folded his arms, smiling. Is good idea. Maybe it will help us figure out how we can do it too, Moash noted. Is not thing to learn. Rock shook his head. Is of the holetental . For him only. You dont know that for certain, Teft said. You dont know for certain I dont know for certain. Rock wagged a spoon at him. Eat your stew. Kaladin held up his hands. You cant tell anyone about this, men. Theyll be frightened of me, maybe think Im related to the Voidbringers or the Radiants. I need your oaths on this. He looked at them, and they nodded, one by one. But we want to help, Skar said. Even if we cant learn it. This thing is part of you, and youre one of us. Bridge Four. Right? Kaladin looked at their eager faces and couldnt stop himself from nodding. Yes. Yes, you can help. Excellent, Sigzil said. Ill prepare a list of tests to gauge speed, accuracy, and the strength of these bonds you can create. Well have to find a way to determine if theres anything else you can do. Throw him off cliff, Rock said. What good will that do? Peet asked. Rock shrugged. If he has other abilities, this thing will make them come out, eh? Nothing like falling from cliff to make a man out of a boy! Kaladin regarded him with a sour expression, and Rock laughed. It will be small cliff. He held up his thumb and forefinger to indicate a tiny amount. I like you too much for large one. I think youre joking, Kaladin said, taking a bite of his stew. But just to be safe, Im sticking you to the ceiling tonight to keep you from trying any experiments while Im asleep. The bridgemen chuckled.