would still happen. Theyd just happen to other people. But this was a parshman . Gotta do what you can to stay alive. No, Kaladin said. Shen is one of us now. I dont care what he was before. I dont care what any of you were. Were Bridge Four. So is he. But Skar began.  No , Kaladin said. We not going to treat him like the lighteyes treat us, Skar. Thats all there is to it. Rock, find him a vest and sandals. The bridgemen split up, all save Teft. What aboutour plans? Teft asked quietly. We proceed, Kaladin said. Teft looked uncomfortable about that. Whats he going to do, Teft? Kaladin asked. Tell on us? Ive never heard a parshman say more than a single word at a time. I doubt he could act as a spy. I dont know, Teft grumbled. But Ive never liked them. They seem to be able to talk to each other, without making any sounds. I dont like the way they look. Teft, Kaladin said flatly, if we rejected bridgemen based on their looks, wed have kicked you out weeks ago for that face of yours. Teft grunted. Then he smiled. What? Kaladin asked. Nothing, he said. Justfor a moment, you reminded me of better days. Afore this storm came crashing down on me. You realize the odds, dont you? Fighting our way free, escaping a man like Sadeas? Kaladin nodded solemnly. Good, Teft said. Well, since you arent inclined to do it, Ill keep an eye on our friend Shen over there. You can thank me after I stop him from sticking a knife in your back. I dont think we have to worry. Youre young, Teft said. Im old. That makes you wiser, presumably? Damnation no, Teft said. The only thing it proves is that Ive more experience staying alive than you. Ill watch him. You just train the rest of this sorry lot to He trailed off, looking around. To keep from tripping over their own feet the moment someone threatens them. You understand? Kaladin nodded. That sounded much like something one of Kaladins old sergeants would say. Teft was insistent on not talking about his past, but he never had seemed as beaten down as most of the others. All right, Kaladin said, make sure the men take care of their equipment.