One raised a hand, the knife in it reflecting starlight, preparing to throw at Szeth. He tensed. There were infused spheres he could draw upon in Tooks pouch. Wait, hissed one of the footpads. The man with the knife paused. Another man came closer, inspecting Szeth. Hes Shin. Wont hurt a cremling. Others pulled the corpse into the alleyway. The one with the knife raised his weapon again. He could still yell. Then why hasnt he? Oim telling you, theyre harmless. Almost like parshmen. We can sell him. Maybe, the second said. Hes terrified. Look at im. Come ere, the first footpad said, waving Szeth forward. He obeyed, walking into the alley, which was suddenly illuminated as the other footpads pulled open Tooks pouch. Kelek, one of them said, hardly worth the effort. A handful of chips and two marks, not a single broam in the lot. Oim telling you, the first man said. We can sell this fellow as a slave. People like Shin servants. Hes just a kid. Nah. They all look like that. Hey, whacha got there? The man plucked a twinkling, sphere-sized chunk of rock from the hand of the man counting the spheres. It was fairly ordinary, a simple piece of rock with a few quartz crystals set into it and a rusty vein of iron on one side. What is this? Worthless, one of the men said. I am required to tell you, Szeth said quietly, that you are holding my Oathstone. So long as you possess it, you are my master. Whats that? one of the footpads said, standing. The first one closed his hand around the stone, shooting a wary glance at the others. He looked back at Szeth. Your master? What does that mean exactly, in precise terms and all? I must obey you, Szeth said. In all things, though I will not follow an order to kill myself. He also couldnt be ordered to give up his Blade, but there was no need to mention that at the moment. Youll obey me? the footpad said. You mean, youll do what Oi say? Yes.  Anything Oi say? Szeth closed his eyes. Yes. Well, aint that something interestin, the man said, musing. Something interestin indeed.