What responsibility are you avoiding. He wasnt avoiding responsibility. He took too much responsibility! Lirin had said it constantly, chastising Kaladin for feeling guilt over deaths he couldnt have prevented. Though there was one thing he clung to. An excuse, perhaps, like the dead emperor. It was the soul of the wretch. Apathy. The belief that nothing was his fault, the belief that he couldnt change anything. If a man was cursed, or if he believed he didnt have to care, then he didnt need to hurt when he failed. Those failures couldnt have been prevented. Someone or something else had ordained them. If Im not cursed, Kaladin said softly, then why do I live when others die? Because of us, Syl said. This bond. It makes you stronger, Kaladin. Then why cant it make me strong enough to help the others? I dont know, Syl said. Maybe it can. If I get rid of it, Ill go back to being normal. For what purpose so I can die with the others? He continued to walk in the darkness, passing lights above that made vague, faint shadows on the stones in front of him. The tendrils of fingermoss, clumped in bunches. Their shadows seemed arms. He thought often about saving the bridgemen. And yet, as he considered, he realized that he often framed saving them in terms of saving himself. He told himself he wouldnt let them die, because he knew what it would do to him if they did. When he lost men, the wretch threatened to take over because of how much Kaladin hated failing. Was that it? Was that why he searched for reasons why he might be cursed? To explain his failure away? Kaladin began to walk more quickly. He was doing something good in helping the bridgemenbut he also was doing something selfish. The powers had unsettled him because of the responsibility they represented. He broke into a jog. Before long, he was sprinting. But if it wasnt about him if he wasnt helping the bridgemen because he loathed failure, or because he feared the pain of watching them die then it would be about them . About Rocks affable gibes, about Moashs intensity, about Tefts earnest gruff ness or Peets quiet dependability. What would he do to protect them? Give up his illusions? His excuses? Seize whatever opportunity he could, no matter how it changed him? No matter how it unnerved him, or what burdens it represented? He dashed up the incline to the lumberyard.