You keep complaining that youve given up that argument, Uncle, Elhokar said, turning to regard him. Yet you continue to dance around it, speaking longingly of peace. People in the camps call you coward. Sadeas snorted. Hes no coward, Your Majesty. I can attest to that. Why, then? Elhokar asked. These rumors have grown far beyond what is reasonable, Dalinar said. And yet, you do not answer my questions, Elhokar said. If you could make the decision, Uncle, would you have us leave the Shattered Plains? Are you a coward? Dalinar hesitated. Unite them, that voice had told him. It is your task, and I give it to you. Am I a coward? he wondered. Nohadon challenged him, in the book, to examine himself. To never become so certain or high that he wasnt willing to seek truth. Elhokars question hadnt been about his visions. And yet, Dalinar had the distinct impression that he was being a coward, at least in relation to his desire to abdicate. If he left because of what was happening to him, that would be taking the easy path. I cant leave, he realized. No matter what happens. I have to see this through. Even if he was mad. Or, an increasingly worrisome thought, even if the visions were real, but their origins suspect. I have to stay. But I also have to plan, to make sure I dont tow my house down. Such a careful line to walk. Nothing clear, everything clouded. Hed been ready to run because he liked to make clear decisions. Well, nothing was clear about what was happening to him. It seemed that in making the decision to remain highprince, he placed one important cornerstone into rebuilding the foundation of who he was. He would not abdicate. And that was that. Dalinar? Elhokar asked. Are you well? Dalinar blinked, realizing that he had stopped paying attention to the king and Sadeas. Staring off into space like that wouldnt help his reputation. He turned to the king. You want to know the truth, he said. Yes, if I could make the order, I would bring all ten warcamps and return to Alethkar. Despite what others said, that was not cowardly. No, hed just confronted cowardice inside of him, and he knew what it was. This was something different. The king looked shocked. I would leave, Dalinar said firmly. But not because I wish to flee or because I fear battle. It would be because I fear for Alethkars stability; leaving this war would help secure our homeland and the loyalty of the highprinces. I