Its kind of you to say so. Well, its true, he said, putting hands on hips, stopping. So thats it? Youre going to give up? She gave him a perplexed stare. He stood there on the busy roadway, lit from above by a lantern burning yellow-orange, hands on his hips, white Thaylen eyebrows drooping along the sides of his face, bare-chested under his open vest. That was a posture no citizen, no matter how high ranked, had ever taken at her fathers mansion. I did try to persuade her, Shallan said, blushing. I went to her a second time, and she rejected me again. Two times, eh? In cards, you always got to try a third hand. It wins the most often. Shallan frowned. But thats not really true. The laws of probability and statistics Dont know much blustering math, Yalb said, folding his arms. But I do know the Passions. You win when you need it most, you see. The Passions. Pagan superstition. Of course, Jasnah had referred to glyphwards as superstition too, so perhaps it all came down to perspective. Try a third timeShallan shivered to consider Jasnahs wrath if Shallan bothered her yet again. Shed surely withdraw the offer to come study with her in the future. But Shallan would never get to take that offer. It was like a glass sphere with no gemstone at the center. Pretty, but worthless. Was it not better to take one last chance at getting the position she needed now ? It wouldnt work. Jasnah had made it quite clear that Shallan was not yet educated enough. Not yet educated enough An idea sparked in Shallans head. She raised her safehand to her breast, standing on that roadway, considering the audacity of it. Shed likely get herself thrown from the city at Jasnahs demand. Yet if she returned home without trying every avenue, could she face her brothers? They depended on her. For once in her life, someone needed Shallan. That responsibility excited her. And terrified her. I need a book merchant, she found herself saying, voice wavering slightly. Yalb raised an eyebrow at her. Third hand wins the most. Do you think you can find me a book merchant who is open at this hour? Kharbranth is a major port, young miss, he said with a laugh. Stores stay open late. Just wait here. He dashed off into the evening crowd, leaving her