snow. The southeastern tip of the plateau rose to a point overlooking the Plains. The two plateaus theyd use were on the middle of the west side; Sadeas would take the northern one and Dalinar would assault from one just below it, once Sadeas had cleared a landing for him. We need to push the Parshendi to the southeast, Dalinar thought, rubbing his chin, corner them there. Everything hinged on that. The chrysalis was up near the top, so the Parshendi were already situated in a good position for Dalinar and Sadeas to push them back against the cliff edge. The Parshendi would probably allow this, as it would give them the high ground. If a second Parshendi army came, it would be separated from the others. The Alethi could focus on the Parshendi trapped atop the Tower while holding a defensive formation against the new arrivals. It would work. He felt himself growing excited. He hopped down to a shorter outcropping, then walked down a few steplike clefts to reach the plateau floor, where his officers waited. He then rounded the rock formation, investigating Adolins progress. The young man stood in his Shardplate, directing the companies as they crossed Sadeass mobile bridges onto the southern staging plateau. In the near distance, Sadeass men were forming up for the assault. That group of armored bridgemen stood out, preparing at the front center of the formation of bridge crews. Why were they allowed armor? Why not the others as well? It looked like Parshendi carapace. Dalinar shook his head. The assault began, bridge crews running out ahead of Sadeass army, approaching the Tower first. Where would you like to make our assault, Father? Adolin asked, summoning his Shardblade and resting it on his pauldron, sharp side up. There, Dalinar said, pointing to a spot on their staging plateau. Get the men ready. Adolin nodded, shouting the orders. In the distance, bridgemen began to die. Heralds guide your paths, you poor men, Dalinar thought. As well as my own. Kaladin danced with the wind. Arrows streamed around him, passing close, nearly kissing him with their painted scragglebark fletching. He had to let them get close, had to make the Parshendi feel they were near to killing him.