I am alaiiiku , Rock said, shrugging. Which means Rock scowled. Airsick lowlanders. Is there nothing proper you know? Anyway, you are special man. Bridge Four, it lost eight runners yesterday counting the three wounded. I know, Kaladin said. I broke my first promise. I said I wasnt going to lose a single one. Rock snorted. We are bridgemen. We die. Is how this thing works. You might as well promise to make the moons catch each other! The large man turned, pointing toward one of the other barracks. Of the bridges that were fired upon, most lost many men. Five bridges fell. They lost over twenty men each and needed soldiers to help get bridges back. Bridge Two lost eleven men, and it wasnt even a focus of firing. He turned back to Kaladin. Bridge Four lost eight. Eight men, during one of the worst runs of the season. And, perhaps, you will save two of those. Bridge Four lost fewest men of any bridge that the Parshendi tried to drop. Bridge Four never loses fewest men. Everyone knows how it is. Luck Rock pointed a fat finger at him, cutting him off. Airsick lowlander. It was just luck. But, well, Kaladin would take it for the small blessing it was. No use arguing when someone had finally decided to start listening to him. But one man wasnt enough. Even if both he and Rock went on half rations, one of the sick men would starve. He needed spheres. He needed them desperately. But he was a slave; it was illegal for him to earn money in most ways. If only he had something he could sell. But he owned nothing. He A thought occurred to him. Come on, he said, striding away from the barrack. Rock followed curiously. Kaladin searched through the lumberyard until he found Gaz speaking with a bridgeleader in front of Bridge Threes barrack. As was growing more common, Gaz grew pale when Kaladin approached, and made as if to scurry away. Gaz, wait! Kaladin said, holding out his hand. I have an offer for you. The bridge sergeant froze. Beside Gaz, Bridge Threes leader shot Kaladin a scowl. The way the other bridgemen had been treating him suddenly made sense. They were perturbed to see Bridge Four come out of a battle in such good shape. Bridge Four was supposed to be unlucky. Everyone needed someone else to look down onand the other bridge crews could be consoled by the small mercy that they werent in Bridge Four. Kaladin had upset that. The dark-bearded bridgeleader retreated, leaving Kaladin and Rock alone