certain the corridor remained open for his troops. Many of the soldiers scrambled toward safety, though several squads proved their mettle by forming up at the sides to keep fighting, opening the gap wider. Sweat had soaked through the brow rag attached to Dalinars helm, and drops of it fell, overwhelming his eyebrows and falling into his left eye. He cursed, reaching to open his visorthen froze. The enemy troops were parting. There, standing among them, was a seven- foot-tall giant of a Parshendi in gleaming silver Shardplate. It fit as only Plate could, having molded to his large stature. His Shardblade was wicked and barbed, like flames frozen into metal. He raised it to Dalinar in a salute. Now? Dalinar bellowed incredulously.  Now you come? The Shardbearer stepped forward, steel boots clanking on stone. The other Parshendi backed away. Why not earlier? Dalinar demanded, hurriedly setting himself into Windstance, blinking his left eye against the sweat. He stood near the shadow of a large, oblong rock formation shaped like a book on its side. Why wait out the entire battle only to attack now? When When Dalinar was about to get away. Apparently the Parshendi Shardbearer had been willing to let his fellows throw themselves at Dalinar when it seemed obvious he would fall. Perhaps they let the regular soldiers try to win Shards, as was done in human armies. Now that Dalinar might escape, the potential loss of a Plate and Blade was too great, and so the Shardbearer had been sent to fight him. The Shardbearer stepped up, speaking in the thick Parshendi language. Dalinar didnt understand a word of it. He raised his Blade and fell into stance. The Parshendi said something further, then grunted and stepped forward, swinging. Dalinar cursed to himself, still blinded in his left eye. He dodged back, swinging his Blade and slapping the enemys weapon. The parry shook Dalinar inside his armor. His muscles responded sluggishly. Stormlight still leaked from cracks in his armor, but it was abating. It wouldnt be much longer before the Plate stopped responding. The Parshendi Shardbearer attacked again. His stance was unfamiliar to Dalinar, but there was something practiced about it. This wasnt a savage playing with a powerful weapon. He was a trained Shardbearer. Dalinar was once again forced to parry, something Windstance wasnt intended do to. His weight-laden muscles were too sluggish to dodge, and his Plate was too cracked to risk letting himself get hit. The blow nearly threw him out of stance. He clenched his teeth, throwing