latest stack of tomes. More histories about the Heraldic Epochs. Mythologies, commentaries, books by scholars known to be wild speculators. Jasnahs current volume was called Shadows Remembered . Shallan memorized the title. She would try to find a copy and look through it. What was Jasnah pursuing? What secrets was she hoping to pry from these volumes, most of them centuries-old copies of copies? Though Shallan had discovered some secrets regarding the Soulcaster, the nature of Jasnahs quest the reason the princess had come to Kharbranthremained elusive. Maddeningly, yet tantalizingly, so. Jasnah liked to speak of the great women of the past, ones who had not just recorded history, but shaped it. Whatever it was she studied, she felt that it was important. World-changing. You mustnt be drawn in, Shallan told herself, settling back with book and notes. Your goal is not to change the world. Your goal is to protect your brothers and your house. Still, she needed to make a good show of her wardship. And that gave her a reason to immerse herself for two hours until footsteps in the hallway interrupted. Likely the servants bringing the midday meal. Jasnah and Shallan often ate on their balcony. Shallans stomach grumbled as she smelled the food, and she gleefully set aside her book. She usually sketched at lunch, an activity that Jasnahdespite her dislike of the visual artsencouraged. She said that highborn men often thought drawing and painting to be enticing in a woman, and so Shallan should maintain her skills, if only for the purpose of attracting suitors. Shallan didnt know whether to find that insulting or not. And what did it say about Jasnahs own intentions for marriage that she herself never bothered with the more becoming feminine arts like music or drawing? Your Majesty, Jasnah said, rising smoothly. Shallan started and looked hastily over her shoulder. The elderly king of Kharbranth was standing in the doorway, wearing magnificent orange and white robes with detailed embroidery. Shallan scrambled to her feet. Brightness Jasnah, the king said. Am I interrupting? Your company is never an interruption, Your Majesty, Jasnah said. She had to be as surprised as Shallan was, yet didnt display a moment of discomfort or anxiety. We were soon to take lunch, anyway. I know, Brightness, Taravangian said. I hope you dont mind if I join you. A group of servants began bringing in food and a table. Not at all, Jasnah said. The servants hurried to set things up, putting two different tablecloths on the round table to separate the genders during dining. They secured the half-moons