He still didnt know what to think of the visions, and their apparent failure in telling him to trust Sadeas. Hed confront that later. One step at a time. Elthal, Dalinar called. The highest-ranked officer who had survived the disaster, Elthal was a limber man with a distinguished face and a thin mustache. His arm was in a sling. Hed been one of those to hold the gap alongside Dalinar during the last part of the fight. Yes, Brightlord? Elthal asked, jogging over to Dalinar. All of the horses save the two Ryshadium were carrying wounded. Take the wounded to my warcamp, Dalinar said. Then tell Teleb to bring the entire camp to alert. Mobilize the remaining companies. Yes, Brightlord, the man said, saluting. Brightlord, what should I tell them to prepare for? Anything. But hopefully nothing. I understand, Brightlord, Elthal said, leaving to follow the orders. Dalinar turned Gallant to march over to the group of bridgemen, still following their somber leader, a man named Kaladin. Theyd left their bridge as soon as theyd reached the permanent bridges; Sadeas could send for it eventually. The bridgemen stopped as he approached, looking as tired as he felt, then arranged themselves in a subtly hostile formation. They clung to their spears, as if certain hed try to take them away. They had saved him, yet they obviously didnt trust him. Im sending my wounded back to my camp, Dalinar said. You should go with them. Youre confronting Sadeas? Kaladin asked. I must. I have to know why he did what he did. I will buy your freedom when I do. Then Im staying with you, Kaladin said. Me too, said a hawk-faced man at the side. Soon all of the bridgemen were demanding to stay. Kaladin turned to them. I should send you back. What? asked an older bridgeman with a short grey beard. You can risk yourself, but we cant? We have men back in Sadeass camp. We need to get them out. At the very least, we need to stay together. See this through. The others nodded. Again, Dalinar was struck by their discipline. More and more, he was certain Sadeas had nothing to do with that. It was this man at their head. Though his eyes were dark brown, he held himself like a brightlord. Well, if they wouldnt go, Dalinar wouldnt force them. He continued to ride, and soon close to a thousand of Dalinars soldiers broke off and marched