waste troops. Actually, it isnt foolish, Kaladin said. If you have to repeatedly attack fortified positions, you cant afford to lose your trained troops. Dont you see? Sadeas has only a limited number of trained men. But untrained ones are easy to find. Each arrow that strikes down a bridgeman is one that doesnt hit a soldier youve spent a great deal of money outfitting and training. Thats why its better for Sadeas to field a large number of bridgemen, rather than a smallerbut protectednumber. He should have seen it earlier. He had been distracted by how important bridgemen were to the battles. If the bridges didnt arrive at the chasms, then the army couldnt cross. But each bridge crew was kept well stocked with bodies, and twice as many bridge crews were sent on an assault as were needed. Seeing a bridge fall must give the Parshendi a great sense of satisfaction, and they usually got to drop two or three bridges on every bad chasm run. Sometimes more. So long as bridgemen were dying, and the Parshendi didnt spend their time firing on soldiers, Sadeas had reason to keep the bridgemen vulnerable. The Parshendi should have seen through it, but it was very hard to turn your arrow away from the unarmored man carrying the siege equipment. The Parshendi were said to be unsophisticated fighters. Indeed, watching the battle on the other plateaustudying it, focusinghe saw that was true. Where the Alethi maintained a straight, disciplined lineeach man protecting his partnersthe Parshendi attacked in independent pairs. The Alethi had superior technique and tactics. True, each of the Parshendi was superior in strength, and their skill with those axes was remarkable. But Sadeass Alethi troops were well trained in modern formations. Once they got a footholdand if they could prolong the battletheir discipline often saw them to victory. The Parshendi havent fought in large-scale battles before this war, Kaladin decided. Theyre used to smaller skirmishes, perhaps against other villages or clans. Several of the other bridgemen joined Kaladin, Rock, and Sigzil. Before long, the majority of them were standing there, some imitating Kaladins stance. It took another hour before the battle was won. Sadeas proved victorious, but Rock was right. The soldiers were grim; theyd lost many friends this day. It was a tired, battered group of spearmen that Kaladin and the others led back to camp.