One of the soldiers laughed roughly. Youre joining the bridge crews. He pointed to where a group of sorry-looking men sat on the stones in the shade of a barrack, scooping food out of wooden bowls with their fingers. It looked depressingly similar to the slop that Tvlakv had fed them. One of the soldiers shoved Kaladin forward again, and he stumbled down the shallow incline and crossed the grounds. The other nine slaves followed, herded by the soldiers. None of the men sitting around the barracks so much as glanced at them. They wore leather vests and simple trousers, some with dirty laced shirts, others bare-chested. The grim, sorry lot werent much better than the slaves, though they did look to be in slightly better physical condition. New recruits, Gaz, one of the soldiers called. A man lounged in the shade a distance from the eating men. He turned, revealing a face that was so scarred his beard grew in patches. He was missing one eyethe other was brownand didnt bother with an eye patch. White knots at his shoulders marked him as a sergeant, and he had the lean toughness Kaladin had learned to associate with someone who knew his way around a battlefield. These spindly things? Gaz said, chewing on something as he walked over. Theyll barely stop an arrow. The soldier beside Kaladin shrugged, shoving him forward once more for good measure. Brightness Hashal said to do something special with this one. The rest are up to you. The soldier nodded to his companions, and they began to trot away. Gaz looked the slaves over. He focused on Kaladin last. I have military training, Kaladin said. In the army of Highlord Amaram. I dont really care, Gaz cut in, spitting something dark to the side. Kaladin hesitated. When Amaram You keep mentioning that name, Gaz snapped. Served under some unimportant landlord, did you? Expect me to be impressed? Kaladin sighed. Hed met this kind of man before, a lesser sergeant with no hope of advancement. His only pleasure in life came from his authority over those even sorrier than himself. Well, so be it. You have a slaves mark, Gaz said, snorting. I doubt you ever held a spear. Either way, youll have to condescend to join us now, Lordship. Kaladins windspren flitted down and inspected Gaz, then closed one of her eyes, imitating him. For some reason, seeing her made Kaladin smile. Gaz misinterpreted the smile. The man scowled and stepped forward, pointing. At that moment, a loud chorus of horns echoed through the camp. Carpenters glanced up, and the soldiers who had guided Kaladin dashed back toward the