against the stone. This will not be a pleasant, idle meal, Kal, Lirin said. Im not a fool, Father. When Hesina had been told there was no more need for her to work in the townWell, there was a reason theyd been reduced to eating longroots. If youre going to confront him, then you should have someone to support you. And that someone is you? Im pretty much all you have. The coachman cleared his throat. He didnt get down and open the door, the way he did for Brightlord Roshone. Lirin eyed Kal. If you send me back, Ill go, Kal said. No. Come along if you must. Lirin walked up to the carriage and pulled open the door. It wasnt the fancy, gold-trimmed vehicle that Roshone used. This was the second carriage, the older brown one. Kal climbed in, feeling a surge of excitement at the small victoryand an equal measure of panic. They were going to face Roshone. Finally. The benches inside were amazing, the red cloth covering them softer than anything Kal had ever felt. He sat down, and the seat was surprisingly springy. Lirin sat across from Kal, pulling the door closed, and the coachman snapped his whip at the horses. The vehicle turned around and rattled back up the road. As soft as the seat was, the ride was terribly bumpy, and it rattled Kals teeth against one another. It was worse than riding in a wagon, though that was probably because they were going faster. Why didnt you want us to know about this? Kal asked. I wasnt certain Id go. What else would you do? Move away, Lirin said. Take you to Kharbranth and escape this town, this kingdom, and Roshones petty grudges. Kal blinked in shock. Hed never thought of that. Suddenly everything seemed to expand. His future changed, wrapping upon itself, folding into a new form entirely. Father, Mother, Tien with him. Really? Lirin nodded absently. Even if we didnt go to Kharbranth, Im sure many Alethi towns would welcome us. Most have never had a surgeon to care for them. They do the best they can with local men who learned most of what they know from superstition or working on the occasional wounded chull. We could even move to Kholinar; Im skilled enough to get work as a physicians assistant there. Why dont we go, then? Why havent we gone?