Dalinar, the king said. Come here. Sadeas tells me he has won three gemhearts in the last few weeks alone! He has indeed, Dalinar said, approaching. How many have you won? Including the one today? No, the king said. Before this. None, Your Majesty, Dalinar admitted. Its Sadeass bridges, Elhokar said. Theyre more efficient than yours. I may not have won anything the last few weeks, Dalinar said stiffly, but my army has won its share of skirmishes in the past. And the gemhearts can go to Damnation, for all I care. Perhaps, Elhokar said, but what have you done lately? I have been busy with other important things. Sadeas raised an eyebrow. More important than the war? More important than vengeance? Is that possible? Or are you just making excuses? Dalinar gave the other highprince a pointed look. Sadeas just shrugged. They were allies, but they were not friends. Not any longer. You should switch to bridges like his, Elhokar said. Your Majesty, Dalinar said. Sadeass bridges waste many lives. But they are also fast, Sadeas said smoothly. Relying on wheeled bridges is foolish, Dalinar. Getting them over this plateau terrain is slow and plodding. The Codes state that a general may not ask a man to do anything he would not do himself. Tell me, Sadeas. Would you run at the front of those bridges you use? I wouldnt eat gruel either, Sadeas said dryly, or cut ditches. But you might if you had to, Dalinar said. The bridges are different. Stormfather, you dont even let them use armor or shields! Would you enter combat without your Plate? The bridgemen serve a very important function, Sadeas snapped. They distract the Parshendi from firing at my soldiers. I tried giving them shields at first. And you know what? The Parshendi ignored the bridgemen and fired volleys onto my soldiers and horses. I found that by doubling the number of bridges on a run, then making them extremely lightno armor, no shields to slow themthe bridgemen work far better. You see, Dalinar? The Parshendi are too tempted by the exposed bridgemen to fire at anyone else! Yes, we lose a few bridge crews in each assault, but rarely so many that it hinders us. The Parshendi just keep firing at themI assume that, for whatever reason, they think killing the bridgemen hurts us. As if an unarmored man carrying a bridge was worth the same to the army as a mounted