people they could see, but not hear. That had established in her what her nurses had referred to as an insolent streak. And the sailors were even more appreciative of a witty comment than her brothers had been. Well, Shallan said to the captain, blushing but still eager to speak, I was just thinking this: You say that my beauty coaxed the winds to deliver us to Kharbranth with haste. But wouldnt that imply that on other trips, my lack of beauty was to blame for us arriving late? Weller So in reality, Shallan said, youre telling me Im beautiful precisely one- sixth of the time. Nonsense! Young miss, youre like a morning sunrise, you are! Like a sunrise? By that you mean entirely too crimsonshe pulled at her long red hairand prone to making men grouchy when they see me? He laughed, and several of the sailors nearby joined in. All right then, Captain Tozbek said, youre like a flower. She grimaced. Im allergic to flowers. He raised an eyebrow. No, really, she admitted. I think theyre quite captivating. But if you were to give me a bouquet, youd soon find me in a fit so energetic that it would have you searching the walls for stray freckles I might have blown free with the force of my sneezes. Well, be that true, I still say youre as pretty as a flower. If I am, then young men my age must be afflicted with the same allergy for they keep their distance from me noticeably. She winced. Now, see, I told you this wasnt polite. Young women should not act in such an irritable way. Ah, young miss, the captain said, tipping his knit cap toward her. The lads and I will miss your clever tongue. Im not sure what well do without you. Sail, likely, she said. And eat, and sing, and watch the waves. All the things you do now, only you shall have rather more time to accomplish all of it, as you wont be stumbling across a youthful girl as she sits on your deck sketching and mumbling to herself. But you have my thanks, Captain, for a trip that was wonderfulif somewhat exaggerated in length. He tipped his cap to her in acknowledgment. Shallan grinnedshe hadnt expected being out on her own to be so liberating. Her brothers had worried that shed be frightened. They saw her as timid because she didnt like to argue and remained quiet when large groups were talking. And perhaps she was timidbeing away from Jah Keved was daunting. But it was also wonderful. Shed filled three sketchbooks with pictures