puncture, inspecting it. There was one more sliver of tusk, jutting from a muscle inside the wound. Right beside that muscle thumped the femoral artery, the largest in the leg. Lirin reached in with his knife, carefully cutting free the sliver of tusk. Then he paused for a moment, the edge of his blade just hairs from the artery. If that were cut Kaladin thought. Roshone would be dead in minutes. He was only alive right now because the tusk had missed the artery. Lirins normally steady hand quivered. Then he glanced up at Kaladin. He withdrew the knife without touching the artery, then reached in with his tongs to pull the sliver free. He tossed it aside, then calmly reached for his thread and needle. Behind them, Rillir had stopped breathing. That evening, Kaladin sat on the steps to his house, hands in his lap. Roshone had been returned to his estate to be cared for by his personal servants. His sons corpse was cooling in the crypt below, and a messenger had been sent to request a Soulcaster for the body. On the horizon, the sun was red as blood. Everywhere Kaladin looked, the world was red. The door to the surgery closed, and his fatherlooking as exhausted as Kaladin felttottered out. He eased himself down, sighing as he sat beside Kaladin, looking at the sun. Did it look like blood to him too? They didnt speak as the sun slowly sank before them. Why was it most colorful when it was about to vanish for the night? Was it angry at being forced belong the horizon? Or was it a showman, giving a performance before retiring? Why was the most colorful part of peoples bodiesthe brightness of their bloodhidden beneath the skin, never to be seen unless something went wrong? No, Kaladin thought. The blood isnt the most colorful part of a body. The eyes can be colorful too. The blood and the eyes. Both representations of ones heritage. And ones nobility. I saw inside a man today, Kaladin finally said. Not for the first time, Lirin said, and certainly not for the last. Im proud of you. I expected to find you here crying, as you usually do when we lose a patient. Youre learning. When I said I saw inside a man, Kaladin said, I wasnt talking about the wounds.