Shallan entered their alcove, but did not ask why shed taken so long. Shallan found herself blushing as she gathered her drawing tools. Kabsal hesitated in the doorway. Hed left a basket of bread and jam on the desk. The top of it was still wrapped with a cloth; Jasnah hadnt touched it, though he always offered her some as a peace offering. Without jam, since Jasnah hated it. Where should I sit? Kabsal asked. Just stand there, Shallan said, sitting down, propping her sketchpad against her legs and holding it still with her covered safehand. She looked up at him, leaning with one hand against the doorframe. Head shaved, light grey robe draped around him, sleeves short, waist tied with a white sash. Eyes confused. She blinked, taking a Memory, then began to sketch. It was one of the most awkward experiences of her life. She didnt tell Kabsal that he could move, and so he held the pose. He didnt speak. Perhaps he thought it would spoil the picture. Shallan found her hand shaking as she sketched, thoughthankfullyshe managed to hold back tears. Tears, she thought, doing the final lines of the wall around Kabsal. Why should I cry? Im not the one who just got rejected. Cant my emotions make sense once in a while? Here, she said, pulling the page free and holding it up. It will smudge unless you spray it with lacquer. Kabsal hesitated, then walked over, taking the picture in reverent fingers. Its wonderful, he whispered. He looked up, then hurried to his lantern, opening it and pulling out the garnet broam inside. Here, he said, proffering it. Payment. I cant take that! For one thing, its not yours. As an ardent, anything Kabsal carried would belong to the king. Please, Kabsal said. I want to give you something. The picture is a gift, she said. If you pay me for it, then I havent given you anything. Then Ill commission another, he said, pressing the glowing sphere into her fingers. Ill take the first likeness for free, but do another for me, please. One of the two of us together. She paused. She rarely did sketches of herself. They felt strange to draw. All right. She took the sphere, then furtively tucked it into her safepouch, beside her Soulcaster. It was a little odd to carry something so heavy there, but shed gotten accustomed to the bulge and weight. Jasnah, do you have a mirror? she asked. The other woman sighed audibly, obviously annoyed by the distraction. She felt through her things, taking out a mirror. Kabsal fetched it.