It will be different this time, Kaladin, Syl said. I can feel it. That sounds like something Tien would have said. His death proves that words dont change anything, Syl. Before you ask, Im not sinking into despair again. But I cant ignore what has happened to me. It started with Tien. Since that moment, it seems that every time Ive specifically picked people to protect, theyve ended up dead. Every time. Its enough to make me wonder if the Almighty himself hates me. She frowned. I think youre being foolish. Besides, if anything, hed hate the people who died, not you. You lived. I suppose its self-centered to make it all about me. But, Syl, I survive, every time, when almost nobody else does. Over and over again. My old spearmans squad, the first bridge crew I ran with, numerous slaves I tried to help escape. Theres a pattern. Its getting harder and harder to ignore. Maybe the Almighty is preserving you, Syl said. Kaladin hesitated on the street; a passing soldier cursed and shoved him aside. Something about this whole conversation was wrong. Kaladin moved over beside a rain barrel set between two sturdy stone-walled shops. Syl, he said. You mentioned the Almighty. You did first. Ignore that for now. Do you believe in the Almighty? Do you know if he really exists? Syl cocked her head. I dont know. Huh. Well, there are a lot of things I dont know. But I should know this one. I think. Maybe? She seemed very perplexed. Im not sure if I believe, Kaladin said, looking out at the street. My mother did, and my father always spoke of the Heralds with reverence. I think he believed too, but maybe just because of the traditions of healing that are said to have come from the Heralds. The ardents ignore us bridgemen. They used to visit the soldiers, when I was in Amarams army, but I havent seen a single one in the lumberyard. I havent given it much thought. Believing never seemed to help any of the soldiers. So if you dont believe, then theres no reason to think that the Almighty hates you. Except, Kaladin said, if there is no Almighty, there might be something else. I dont know. A lot of the soldiers I knew were superstitious. Theyd talk about things like the Old Magic and the Nightwatcher, things that could bring a man bad luck. I scoffed at them. But how long can I continue to ignore that possibility? What if all of these failures can be traced to something like that? Syl looked disturbed. The cap and jacket shed been wearing dissolved to