very specific about that. Yes, the highest Calling of men was to join the battle in the afterlife to reclaim the Tranquiline Halls, but the Almighty accepted the excellence of any man or woman, regardless of what they did. You just did your best, picking a profession and an attribute of the Almighty to emulate. A Calling and a Glory, it was said. You worked hard at your profession, and you spent your life trying to live according to a single ideal. The Almighty would accept that, particularly if you were lighteyedthe better your blood as a lighteyes, the more innate Glory you had already. Dalinars Calling was to be a leader, and his chosen Glory was determination. Hed chosen both in his youth, though he now viewed them very differently than he once had. You are right, of course, Father, Renarin said. I am not the first heros son to be born without any talent for warfare. The others all got along. So shall I. Likely I will end up as citylord of a small town. Assuming I dont tuck myself away in the devotaries. The boys eyes turned forward. I still think of him as the boy, Dalinar thought. Even though hes now in his twentieth year. Wit had been right. Dalinar underestimated Renarin. How would I react, if I were forbidden to fight? Kept back with the women and the merchants? Dalinar would have been bitter, particularly against Adolin. In fact, Dalinar had often been envious of Gavilar during their boyhood. Renarin, however, was Adolins greatest supporter. He all but worshipped his elder brother. And he was brave enough to dash heedless into the middle of a battlefield where a nightmare creature was smashing spearmen and tossing aside Shardbearers. Dalinar cleared his throat. Perhaps it is time to again try training you in the sword. My blood weakness Wont matter a bit if we get you into a set of Plate and give you a Blade, Dalinar said. The armor makes any man strong, and a Shardblade is nearly as light as air itself. Father, Renarin said flatly, Ill never be a Shardbearer. You yourself have said that the Blades and Plate we win from the Parshendi must go to the most skilled warriors. None of the other highprinces give up their spoils to the king, Dalinar said. And who would fault me if, for once, I made a gift to my son? Renarin stopped in the hallway, displaying an unusual level of emotion, eyes opening wider, face eager. You are serious? I give you my oath, son. If I can capture another Blade and Plate, they will go to you. He smiled. To be honest, Id do it simply for the joy of seeing