a metal plate. As she opened her mouth to ask a question, he held up his finger again and set the plate down on a small wooden stand that raised it a few inches above the tabletop. Kabsal sprinkled white, powdery sand on the sheet of metal, coating it. Then he got out a bow, the kind drawn across strings to make music. You came prepared for this demonstration, I see, Shallan noted. You really did want to make your case to Jasnah. He smiled, then drew the bow across the edge of the metal plate, making it vibrate. The sand hopped and bounced, like tiny insects dropped onto something hot. This, he said, is called cymatics. The study of the patterns that sounds make when interacting with a physical medium. As he drew the bow again, the plate made a sound, almost a pure note. It was actually enough to draw a single musicspren, which spun for a moment in the air above him, then vanished. Kabsal finished, then gestured to the plate with a flourish. So? Shallan asked. Kholinar, he said, holding up his book for comparison. Shallan cocked her head. The pattern in the sand looked exactly like Kholinar. He dropped more sand on the plate and then drew the bow across it at another point and the sand rearranged itself. Vedenar, he said. She compared again. It was an exact match. Thaylen City, he said, repeating the process at another spot. He carefully chose another point on the plates edge and bowed it one final time. Akinah. Shallan, proof of the Almightys existence is in the very cities we live in. Look at the perfect symmetry! She had to admit, there was something compelling about the patterns. It could be a false correlation. Both caused by the same thing. Yes. The Almighty, he said, sitting. Our very language is symmetrical. Look at the glyphseach one can be folded in half perfectly. And the alphabet too. Fold any line of text down across itself, and youll find symmetry. Surely you know the story, that both glyphs and letters came from the Dawnsingers? Yes. Even our names. Yours is nearly perfect. Shallan. One letter off, an ideal name for a lighteyed woman. Not too holy, but ever so close. The original names for the ten Silver Kingdoms. Alethela, Valhav, Shin Kak Nish. Perfect, symmetrical.