That had been his plan for most of the later months of his enslavement, but hed never had the means. It took money to travel, to get far enough away from the area where his description would be in circulation. Money to buy lodging in a seedy section of town, a place where nobody asked questions, while he healed from his self-inflicted wound. In addition, there had always been the others. So hed stayed, trying to get as many out as he could. Failing every time. And he was doing it again. Kaladin? Syl asked from his shoulder. You look very serious. What are you thinking? Im wondering if I should run. Escape this storm-cursed camp and find myself a new life. Syl fell silent. Life is hard here, she finally said. I dont know if anyone would blame you. Rock would, he thought. And Teft. Theyd worked for that knobweed sap. They didnt know what it was worth; they thought it was only for healing the sick. If he ran, hed be betraying them. Hed be abandoning the bridgemen. Shove over, you fool, Kaladin thought to himself. You wont save these bridgemen. Just like you didnt save Tien. You should run. And then what? he whispered. Syl turned to him. What? If he ran, what good would it do? A life working for chips in the underbelly of some rotting city? No. He couldnt leave them. Just like hed never been able to leave anyone who hed thought needed him. He had to protect them. He had to. For Tien. And for his own sanity. Chasm duty, Gaz said, spitting to the side. The spittle was colored black from the yamma plant he chewed. What? Kaladin had returned from selling the knobweed to discover that Gaz had changed Bridge Fours work detail. They werent scheduled to be on duty for any bridge runstheir run the day before exempted them. Instead, they were supposed to be assigned to Sadeass smithy to help lift ingots and other supplies. That sounded like difficult work, but it was actually among the easiest jobs bridgemen got. The blacksmiths felt they didnt need the extra hands. That, or they presumed that clumsy bridgemen would just get in the way. On smithy