That is They are wrong , Dalinar said firmly, if they claim that I no longer care. He rested his fingers on the surface of the map again, running them across the smooth parchment. I care, Roion. I care deeply. About this people. About my nephew. About the future of this war. And that is why I suggest we pursue an aggressive course from now on. Well, that is good to hear, I suppose. Unite them. I want you to try a joint plateau assault with me, Dalinar said. What? I want the two of us to try coordinating our efforts and attack at the same time, working together. Why would we want to do that? We could increase our chances of winning gemhearts. If more troops increased my chances of winning, Roion said, then Id just bring more of my own. The plateaus are too small for fielding large armies, and mobility is more important than sheer numbers. It was a valid point; on the Plains, more didnt necessarily mean better. Close confines and a requisite forced march to the battlefield changed warfare significantly. The exact number of troops used depended on the size of the plateau and the highprinces personal martial philosophy. Working together wouldnt just be about fielding more troops, Dalinar said. Each highprinces army has different strengths. Im known for my heavy infantry; you have the best archers. Sadeass bridges are the fastest. Working together, we could try new tactics. We expend too much effort getting to the plateau in haste. If we werent so rushed, competing against one another, maybe we could surround the plateau. We could try letting the Parshendi arrive first, then assault them on our terms, not theirs. Roion hesitated. Dalinar had spent days deliberating with his generals about the possibility of a joint assault. It seemed that there would be distinct advantages, but they wouldnt know for certain until someone tried it with him. He actually seemed to be considering. Who would get the gemheart? We split the wealth equally, Dalinar said. And if we capture a Shardblade? The man who won it would get it, obviously. And thats most likely to be you, Roion said, frowning. As you and your son already have Shards. It was the great problem of Shardblades and Shardplatewinning either was highly unlikely unless you already had Shards yourself. In fact, having only one