the colors and pattern indicating the island of their Reshi handlers. The bridge beneath them groaned ominously as the larger siege bridge rolled onto it. All around the staging area, soldiers turned to look. Even the workmen cutting a latrine into the stony ground on the eastern side stopped to watch. The groans from the bridge grew louder. Then they became sharp cracks. The handlers halted the chulls, glancing toward Teleb. Its not going to hold, is it? Adolin asked. Teleb sighed. Storm it, I was hopingBah, we made the smaller bridge too thin when we widened it. But if we make it thicker, it will get too heavy to carry. He glanced at Dalinar. I apologize for wasting your time, Brightlord. You are correct; this is akin to the ten fools. Adolin, what do you think? Dalinar asked. Adolin frowned. WellI think perhaps we should keep working with it. This is only the first attempt, Teleb. Perhaps theres still a way. Design the siege bridges to be narrower, maybe? That could be very costly, Brightlord, Teleb said. If it helps us win one extra gemheart, the effort would be paid for several times over. Yes, Teleb said, nodding. I will speak with Lady Kalana. Perhaps she can devise a new design. Good, Dalinar said. He stared at the bridge for an extended moment. Then, oddly, he turned to look toward the other side of the staging area, where the workers had been cutting the latrine ditch. Father? Adolin asked. Why do you suppose, Dalinar said, there are no Shardplate-like suits for workmen? What? Shardplate gives awesome strength, but we rarely use it for anything other than war and slaughter. Why did the Radiants fashion only weapons? Why didnt they make productive tools for use by ordinary men? I dont know, Adolin said. Perhaps because war was the most important thing around. Perhaps, Dalinar said, voice growing softer. And perhaps thats a final condemnation of them and their ideals. For all of their lofty claims, they never gave their Plate or its secrets to the common people. II dont understand why thats important, Father. Dalinar shook himself slightly. We should get on with our inspections. Wheres Ladent? Here, Brightlord. A short man stepped up to Dalinar. Bald and bearded,