satisfied to receive a broken one. Shallan pursed her lips. Balat, have you thought that we might be risking a war? If it becomes known that weve stolen an Alethi Soulcaster No, there wouldnt be a war, Nan Balat wrote back. King Hanavanar would just turn us over to the Alethi. Theyd execute us for the theft. Wonderfully comforting, Balat, she wrote. Thank you so much. Youre welcome. Were going to have to hope that Jasnah doesnt realize that you took the Soulcaster. It seems likely shell assume that hers broke for some reason. Shallan sighed. Perhaps, she wrote. Take care, Nan Balat sent her. You too. And that was it. She set the spanreed aside, then read over the entire conversation, memorizing it. Then she crumpled up the sheets and walked into the sitting room of Jasnahs quarters. She wasnt thereJasnah rarely broke from her studiesso Shallan burned the conversation in the hearth. She stood for a long moment, watching the fire. She was worried. Nan Balat was capable, but they all bore scars from the lives theyd led. Eylita was the only scribe they could trust, and shewell, she was incredibly nice but not very clever. With a sigh, Shallan left the room to return to her studies. Not only would they help get her mind off her troubles, but Jasnah would grow testy if she dallied too long. Five hours later, Shallan wondered why it was shed been so eager. She did enjoy her chances at scholarship. But recently, Jasnah had set her to study the history of the Alethi monarchy. It wasnt the most interesting subject around. Her boredom was compounded by her being forced to read a number of books that expressed opinions she found ridiculous. She sat in Jasnahs alcove at the Veil. The enormous wall of lights, alcoves, and mysterious researchers no longer awed her. The place was becoming comfortable and familiar. She was alone at the moment. Shallan rubbed her eyes with her freehand, then slid her book closed. I, she muttered, am really coming to hate the Alethi monarchy. Is that so? a calm voice said from behind. Jasnah walked past, wearing a sleek violet dress, followed by a parshman porter with a stack of books. Ill try