Moash and Rock retreated to the safety of the barrack, Syl leaving Rocks shoulder to stay with Kaladin. Teft lingered too, as if thinking to spend the storm with Kaladin. He eventually shook his head, muttering, and joined the others. Kaladin thought he heard the man calling himself a coward. The door to the barrack shut. Kaladin fingered the smooth glass sphere. The sky was darkening, and not just because the sun was setting. Blackness gathered. The highstorm. Syl walked up the side of the wall, then sat down on it, looking at him, tiny face somber. You told them youd survive. What happens if you dont? Kaladins head was pounding with his pulse. My mother would cringe if she knew how quickly the other soldiers taught me to gamble. First night in Amarams army, and they had me playing for spheres. Kaladin? Syl said. Sorry, Kaladin said, rocking his head from side to side. What you said, it reminded me of that night. Theres a term in gambling, you see. In for all, they say. Its when you put all of your money on one bet. I dont understand. Im putting it all on the long bet, Kaladin whispered. If I die, then theyll come out, shake their heads, and tell themselves they knew it would happen. But if I live, theyll remember it. And it will give them hope. They might see it as a miracle. Syl was silent for a moment. Do you want to be a miracle? No, Kaladin whispered. But for them, I will be. It was a desperate, foolish hope. The eastern horizon, inverted in his sight, was growing darker. From this perspective, the storm was like the shadow of some enormous beast lumbering across the ground. He felt the disturbing fuzziness of a person who had been hit too hard on the head. Concussion. That was what it was called. He was having trouble thinking, but he didnt want to fall unconscious. He wanted to stare at the highstorm straight on, though it terrified him. He felt the same panic hed felt looking down into the black chasm, back when hed nearly killed himself. It was the fear of what he could not see, what he could not know. The stormwall approached, the visible curtain of rain and wind at the advent of a highstorm. It was a massive wave of water, dirt, and rocks, hundreds of feet high, thousands upon thousands of windspren zipping before it. In battle, hed been able to fight his way to safety with the skill of his spear. When hed stepped to the edge of the chasm, there had been a line of retreat. This time, there was nothing. No way to fight or avoid that black beast, that shadow spanning the entirety of the horizon, plunging the world into an early