ever heard his father come to threatening real violence. But why go through this in the first place? Kal whispered. You said that we can keep resisting him. Mother thinks so too. We wont eat well, but we wont starve. His father didnt reply, though he looked troubled. You need to make him think that were capitulating, Kal said. Or that were close to doing so. So that hell stop looking for ways to undermine us? So hell focus his attention on making a deal and not Kal froze. He saw something unfamiliar in his fathers eyes. Something like guilt. Suddenly it made sense. Cold, terrible sense. Stormfather, Kal whispered. You did steal the spheres, didnt you? His father remained silent, riding in the old carriage, shadowed and black. Thats why youve been so tense since Wistiow died, Kal whispered. The drinking, the worryingYoure a thief! Were a family of thieves. The carriage turned, and the violet light of Salas illuminated Lirins face. He didnt look half so ominous from that anglein fact, he looked fragile. He clasped his hands before him, eyes reflecting moonlight. Wistiow was not lucid during the final days, Kal, he whispered. I knew that, with his death, we would lose the promise of a union. Laral had not reached her day of majority, and the new citylord wouldnt let a darkeyes take her inheritance through marriage. So you robbed him? Kal felt himself shrinking. I made certain that promises were kept. I had to do something. I couldnt trust to the generosity of the new citylord. Wisely, as you can see. All of this time, Kal had assumed that Roshone was persecuting them out of malice and spite. But it turned out he was justified . I cant believe it. Does it change so much? Lirin whispered. His face looked haunted in the dim light. What is different now? Everything. And yet nothing. Roshone still wants those spheres, and we still deserve them. Wistiow, if hed been fully lucid, would have given us those spheres. Im certain. But he didnt. No. Things were the same, yet different. One step, and the world flipped upside down. The villain became the hero, the hero the villain. I Kal said. I cant decide if what you did was incredibly brave or incredibly wrong. Lirin sighed. I know how you feel. He sat back. Please, dont tell Tien what weve done. What weve done. Hesina had helped him. When you are older, youll understand.