irrational? I have never cared what they say. We spend all our time on bureaucracy while others win wealth and glory. We rarely go on plateau assaults because were busy doing things like this ! We need to be out there, fighting, if were ever going to catch up to Sadeas! Dalinar looked at him, frown deepening, and Adolin bit off his next outburst. I see that were no longer talking about this broken girth, Dalinar said. IIm sorry. I spoke in haste. Perhaps you did. But then again, perhaps I needed to hear it. I noticed that you didnt particularly like how I held you back from Sadeas earlier. I know you hate him too, Father. You do not know as much as you presume you do, Dalinar said. Well do something about that in a moment. For now, I swearthis strap does look like it was cut. Perhaps there is something were not seeing. This could have been part of something larger that didnt work the way it had been anticipated. Adolin hesitated. It seemed overcomplicated, but if there was a group who liked their plots overly complicated, it was the Alethi lighteyes. Do you think one of the highprinces may have tried something? Maybe, Dalinar said. But I doubt any of them want him dead. So long as Elhokar rules, the highprinces get to fight in this war their way and fatten their purses. He doesnt make many demands of them. They like having him as their king. Men can covet the throne for the distinction alone. True. When we return, see if anyone has been bragging too much of late. Check to see if Roion is still bitter about Wits insult at the feast last week and have Talata go over the contracts Highprince Bethab offered to the king for the use of his chulls. In previous contracts, hes tried to slip in language that would favor his claim in a succession. Hes been bold ever since your aunt Navani left. Adolin nodded. See if you can backtrack the girths history, Dalinar said. Have a leatherworker look at it and tell you what he thinks of the rip. Ask the grooms if they noticed anything, and watch to see if any have received any suspicious windfalls of spheres lately. He hesitated. And double the kings guard. Adolin turned, glancing at the pavilion. Sadeas was strolling out of it. Adolin narrowed his eyes. Do you think No, Dalinar interrupted. Sadeas is an eel. Son, you have to stop fixating on him. He likes Elhokar, which cant be