You can read me too well, old friend. I know those emotions because Ive felt them. I I never assumed that you would feel them too. Then I correct myself. Perhaps you dont know me well enough. Dalinar fell silent. So what do I do? Nohadon asked. Youre asking me ? Youre my advisor, arent you? Well, I should like some advice. I You cant give up your throne. And what should I do with it? Nohadon turned and walked along the long balcony. It seemed to run around this entire level. Dalinar joined him, passing places where the stone was ripped, the railing broken away. I havent faith in people any longer, old friend, Nohadon said. Put two men together, and they will find something to argue about. Gather them into groups, and one group will find reason to oppress or attack another. Now this. How do I protect them? How do I stop this from happening again? You dictate a book, Dalinar said eagerly. A grand book to give people hope, to explain your philosophy on leadership and how lives should be lived! A book? Me. Write a book? Why not? Because its a fantastically stupid idea. Dalinars jaw dropped. The world as we know it has quite nearly been destroyed, Nohadon said. Barely a family exists that hasnt lost half its members! Our best men are corpses on that field, and we havent food to last more than two or three months at best. And Im to spend my time writing a book? Who would scribe it for me? All of my wordsmen were slaughtered when Yelignar broke into the chancery. Youre the only man of letters I know of whos still alive. A man of letters? This was an odd time. I could write it, then. With one arm? Have you learned to write left-handed, then? Dalinar looked down. He had both of his arms, though apparently the man Nohadon saw was missing his right. No, we need to rebuild, Nohadon said. I just wish there were a way to convince the kingsthe ones still alivenot to seek advantage over one another. Nohadon tapped the balcony. So this is my decision. Step down, or do what is needed. This isnt a time for writing. Its a time for action. And then, unfortunately, a time for the sword. The sword? Dalinar thought. From you, Nohadon? It wouldnt happen. This man would become a great philosopher; he would