Thank you, Dalinar said quietly. For not going through with it. Behind them, the flutist resumed her playing. For not going through with what? Sadeas said, setting down his small plate, then prying Dalinars fingers free. I had hoped to make this presentation after Id discovered more concrete proof that you werent involved. Unfortunately, pressed as I was, the best I could do was to indicate that it was unlikely you were involved. There will still be rumors, Im afraid. Wait. You wanted to prove me innocent? Sadeas scowled, picking up his plate again. Do you know what your problem is, Dalinar? Why everyone has begun finding you so tiresome? Dalinar didnt reply. The presumption. Youve grown despicably self-righteous. Yes, I asked Elhokar for this position so I could prove you innocent. Is it so storming difficult for you to believe someone else in this army might do something honest? I Dalinar said. Of course it is, Sadeas said. Youve been looking down on us like a man standing atop a single sheet of paper, who therefore thinks himself so high as to see for miles. Well, I think that book of Gavilars is crem, and the Codes are lies people pretended to follow so that they could justify their shriveled consciences. Damnation, Ive got one of those shriveled consciences myself. But I didnt want to see you maligned for this bungled attempt to kill the king. If youd wanted him dead, youd have just burned out his eyes and been done with it! Sadeas took a drink of his steaming violet wine. The problem is, Elhokar kept on and on about that blasted strap. And people started talking, since he was under your protection and you two rode off together like that. Stormfather only knows how they could think you would try to have Elhokar assassinated. You can barely bring yourself to kill Parshendi these days. Sadeas stuffed a small piece of toasted bread in his mouth, then moved to walk away. Dalinar caught him by the arm again. II owe you a debt. I shouldnt have treated you as I have these six years. Sadeas rolled his eyes, chewing his bread. This wasnt for you alone. So long as everyone thought you were behind the attempt, nobody would figure out who really tried to have Elhokar killed. And someone did , Dalinar. I dont accept eight gemstones cracking in one fight. The strap alone would have been a ridiculous way to attempt an assassination, but with weakened ShardplateIm half tempted to believe that the surprise arrival of the chasmfiend was orchestrated too. How someone would manage that though, I have no idea. And the talk of me being framed? Dalinar asked. Mostly to give the others something to gossip about while I sort through