The rearguard captains werent formed up yet, so Adolin decided to give the king a report instead. He trotted up toward the kingjoining Sadeas, who was doing the same. Not unexpectedly, Sadeas frowned at him. The highprince hated that Adolin had a Blade while Sadeas had none; he had coveted one for years now. Adolin met the highprinces eyes, smiling. Anytime you want to duel me for my Blade, Sadeas, go ahead and try. What Adolin wouldnt do to get that eel of a man in the dueling ring. When Dalinar and the king rode up, and Adolin spoke quickly, before Sadeas could speak. Your Majesty, I have scout reports. The king sighed. More of nothing, I expect. Honestly, Uncle, must we have a report on every little detail of the army? We are at war, Your Majesty, Dalinar said. Elhokar sighed sufferingly. Youre a strange man, cousin, Adolin thought. Elhokar saw murderers in every shadow, yet often dismissed the Parshendi threat. Hed go charging off like he had today, with no honor guard, and would leap off a forty-foot-tall rock formation. Yet hed stay up nights, terrified of assassination. Give your report, son, Dalinar said. Adolin hesitated, now feeling foolish at the lack of substance to what he had to say. The scouts have seen no sign of the Parshendi. Theyve met with the huntmaster. Two companies have secured the next plateau, and the other eight will need some time to cross. Were close, though. Yes, we saw from above, Elhokar said. Perhaps a few of us could ride ahead. Your Majesty, Dalinar said. The point of bringing my troops along would be somewhat undermined if you left them behind. Elhokar rolled his eyes. Dalinar did not yield, his expression as immobile as the rocks around them. Seeing him like thatfirm, unyielding before a challengemade Adolin smile with pride. Why couldnt he be like this all of the time? Why did he back down so often before insults or challenges? Very well, the king said. Well take a break and wait while the army crosses. The kings attendants responded immediately, men climbing off horses, women having their palanquin bearers set them down. Adolin moved off to get that rearguard report. By the time he returned, Elhokar was practically holding court. His servants had set up a small awning to give him shade, and others served wine. Chilled, using one of the new fabrials that could make things cold. Adolin removed his helm and wiped his brow with his saddle rag, again