thick logs. In a street inland of the docks, a prowling mink skulked in the shadows, watching for morsels that might be dropped. She couldnt resist pulling open her portfolio and beginning a sketch of a pouncing skyeel. Wasnt it afraid of all the people? She held her sketchpad with her safehand, hidden fingers wrapping around the top as she used a charcoal pencil to draw. Before she was finished, her guide returned with a man pulling a curious contraption with two large wheels and a canopy-covered seat. She hesitantly lowered her sketchpad. Shed expected a palanquin. The man pulling the machine was short and dark-skinned, with a wide smile and full lips. He gestured for Shallan to sit, and she did so with the modest grace her nurses had drilled into her. The driver asked her a question in a clipped, terse-sounding language she didnt recognize. What was that? she asked Yalb. He wants to know if youd like to be pulled the long way or the short way. Yalb scratched his head. Im not right sure what the difference is. I suspect one takes longer, Shallan said. Oh, you are a clever one. Yalb said something to the porter in that same clipped language, and the man responded. The long way gives a good view of the city, Yalb said. The short way goes straight up to the Conclave. Not many good views, he says. I guess he noticed you were new to the city. Do I stand out that much? Shallan asked, flushing. Eh, no, of course not, Brightness. And by that you mean that Im as obvious as a wart on a queens nose. Yalb laughed. Afraid so. But you cant go someplace a second time until you been there a first time, I reckon. Everyone has to stand out sometime, so you might as well do it in a pretty way like yourself! Shed had to get used to gentle flirtation from the sailors. They were never too forward, and she suspected the captains wife had spoken to them sternly when shed noticed how it made Shallan blush. Back at her fathers manor, servantseven those who had been full citizenshad been afraid to step out of their places. The porter was still waiting for an answer. The short way, please, she told Yalb, though she longed to take the scenic path. She was finally in a real city and she took the direct route? But Brightness Jasnah had proven to be as elusive as a wild songling. Best to be quick. The main roadway cut up the hillside in switchbacks, and so even the short way gave her time to see much of the city. It proved intoxicatingly rich with strange people, sights, and ringing bells. Shallan sat back and took it all in.