That was a lie. Hed known his father was serious. Kal just hadnt wanted to mention leaving to become a surgeon, particularly not to Laral. She placed her hands on her hips. I thought you were going to go become a soldier. Kal shrugged. She rolled her eyes, hopping down off her ridge onto a stone beside him. Dont you want to become a lighteyes? Win a Shardblade? Father says that doesnt happen very often. She knelt down before him. Im sure you could do it. Those eyes, so bright and alive, shimmering green, the color of life itself. More and more, Kal found that he liked looking at Laral. Kal knew, logically, what was happening to him. His father had explained the process of growing with the precision of a surgeon. But there was so much feeling involved, emotions that his fathers sterile descriptions hadnt explained. Some of those emotions were about Laral and the other girls of the town. Other emotions had to do with the strange blanket of melancholy that smothered him at times when he wasnt expecting. I Kal said. Look, Laral said, standing up again and climbing atop her rock. Her fine yellow dress ruffled in the wind. One more year, and shed start wearing a glove on her left hand, the mark that a girl had entered adolescence. Up, come on. Look. Kal hauled himself to his feet, looking eastward. There, snarlbrush grew in dense thickets around the bases of stout markel trees. What do you see? Laral demanded. Brown snarlbrush. Looks like its probably dead. The Origin is out there, she said, pointing. This is the stormlands. Father says were here to be a windbreak for more timid lands to the west. She turned to him. Weve got a noble heritage, Kal, darkeyes and light-eyes alike. Thats why the best warriors have always been from Alethkar. Highprince Sadeas, General AmaramKing Gavilar himself. I suppose. She sighed exaggeratedly. I hate talking to you when youre like this, you know. Like what? Like you are now. You know. Moping around, sighing.  Youre the one who just sighed, Laral. You know what I mean. She stepped down from the rock, walking over to go pout. She did that