Something cracked him across the back. He grunted, stumbling and falling to one knee. The noblewoman stepped back, raising her safehand to her breast in alarm. One of the army soldiers grabbed Kaladin and towed him back to his feet. Well, she finally said. That is unfortunate. I can fight, Kaladin growled against the pain. Give me a spear. Let me  She raised her rod, cutting him off. Brightness, Tvlakv said, not meeting Kaladins eyes. I would not trust him with a weapon. It is true that he is a murderer, but he is also known to disobey and lead rebellions against his masters. I couldnt sell him to you as a bonded soldier. My conscience, it would not allow it. He hesitated. The men in his wagon, he might have corrupted them all with talk of escape. My honor demands that I tell you this. Kaladin gritted his teeth. He was tempted to try to take down the soldier behind him, grab that spear and spend his last moments ramming it through Tvlakvs portly gut. Why? What did it matter to Tvlakv how Kaladin was treated by this army? I should never have ripped up the map, Kaladin though. Bitterness is repaid more often than kindness. One of his fathers sayings. The woman nodded, moving on. Show me which ones, she said. Ill still take them, because of your honesty. We need some new bridgemen. Tvlakv nodded eagerly. Before moving on, he paused and leaned in to Kaladin. I cannot trust that you will behave. The people in this army, they will blame a merchant for not revealing all he knew. Iam sorry. With that, the merchant scuttled away. Kaladin growled in the back of his throat, and then pulled himself free of the soldiers, but remained in line. So be it. Cutting down trees, building bridges, fighting in the army. None of it mattered. He would just keep living. Theyd taken his freedom, his family, his friends, andmost dear of allhis dreams. They could do nothing more to him. After her inspection, the noblewoman took a writing board from her assistant and made a few quick notations on its paper. Tvlakv gave her a ledger detailing how much each slave had paid down on their slave debt. Kaladin caught a glimpse; it said that not a single one of the men had paid anything. Perhaps Tvlakv lied about the figures. Not unlikely. Kaladin would probably just let all of his wages go to his debt this time. Let them squirm as they saw him actually call their bluff. What would they do if he got close to earning out his debt? Hed probably never find outdepending on what these bridgemen earned, it could take anything from ten to fifty years to get