recover. Sorry we didnt get you nothin, sir, Maps said to Kaladin. We didnt know youd be awake and all. Its all right, Kaladin said. Well, Skar said. Is someone going to serve that stew, or will we all just sit here hungry until it burns? Dunny jumped up, grabbing the ladle. The men gathered around the pot, jostling one another as Dunny served. Without Rock there to snap at them and keep them in line, it was something of a melee. Only Sigzil did not join in. The quiet, dark-skinned man sat to the side, eyes reflecting the flames. Kaladin rose. He was worriedterrified, reallythat he might become that wretch again. The one who had given up on caring because he saw no alternative. So he sought conversation, walking over toward Sigzil. His motion disturbed Syl, who sniffed and buzzed up onto his shoulder. She still held the form of a flickering flame; having that on his shoulder was even more distracting. He didnt say anything; if she knew it bothered him, shed be likely to do it more. She was still a windspren, after all. Kaladin sat down next to Sigzil. Not hungry? They are more eager than I, Sigzil said. If previous evenings are a reliable guide, there will still be enough for me once they have filled their bowls. Kaladin nodded. I appreciated your analysis out on the plateau today. I am good at that, sometimes. Youre educated. You speak like it and you act like it. Sigzil hesitated. Yes, he finally said. Among my people, it is not a sin for a male to be keen of mind. It isnt a sin for Alethi either. My experience is that you care only about wars and the art of killing. And what have you seen of us besides our army? Not much, Sigzil admitted. So, a man of education, Kaladin said thoughtfully. In a bridge crew. My education was never completed. Neither was mine. Sigzil looked at him, curious. I apprenticed as a surgeon, Kaladin said. Sigzil nodded, thick dark hair falling around his shoulders. Hed been one of the only bridgemen who bothered shaving. Now that Rock had a razor, maybe that would change. A surgeon, he said. I cannot say that is surprising, considering how you handled the wounded. The men say that youre secretly a