wouldnt have expected anything else. You told him you were increasing what you charge him for wood? Sadeas controlled the only large forest in the region. Doubling it, Sadeas said. Adolin looked over his shoulder. Vamah was watching them stand there, and his expression was as thunderous as a highstorm, angerspren boiling up from the ground around him like small pools of bubbling blood. Dalinar and Sadeas together sent him a very sound message. Whythis is probably why they invited him on the hunt, Adolin realized. So they could maneuver him. Will it work? Dalinar asked. Im certain it will, Sadeas said. Vamahs an agreeable enough fellow, when proddedhell see that its better to use the Soulcasters than spend a fortune running a supply line back to Alethkar. Perhaps we should tell the king about these sorts of things, Dalinar said, glancing at the king, who stood in the pavilion, oblivious of what had been done. Sadeas sighed. Ive tried; he hasnt a mind for this sort of work. Leave the boy to his preoccupations, Dalinar. His are the grand ideals of justice, holding the sword high as he rides against his fathers enemies. Lately, he seems less preoccupied with the Parshendi, and more worried about assassins in the night, Dalinar said. The boys paranoia worries me. I dont know where he gets it. Sadeas laughed. Dalinar, are you serious ? Im always serious. I know, I know. But surely you can see where the boy comes by the paranoia! From the way his father was killed? From the way his uncle treats him! A thousand guards? Halts on each and every plateau to let soldiers secure the next one over? Really, Dalinar? I like to be careful. Others call that being paranoid. The Codes The Codes are a bunch of idealized nonsense, Sadeas said, devised by poets to describe the way they think things should have been. Gavilar believed in them. And look where it got him. And where were you, Sadeas, when he was fighting for his life? Sadeass eyes narrowed. So were going to rehash that now? Like old lovers, crossing paths unexpectedly at a feast? Adolins father didnt reply. Once again, Adolin found himself baffled by