They moved, offering no further complaint, rushing to pilfer from the corpses Sadeas had abandoned. That left Kaladin alone beside the bridge. He was still unsettled. It wasnt just the wounded back in camp. What was it, then? This was a fantastic opportunity. The type hed have practically killed to get during his years as a slave. The chance to vanish, presumed dead? The bridgemen wouldnt have to fight. They were free. Why, then, was he so anxious? Kaladin turned to survey his men, and was shocked to see someone standing beside him. A woman of translucent white light. It was Syl, as hed never seen her before, the size of a regular person, hands clasped in front of her, hair and dress streaming to the side in the wind. Hed had no idea she could make herself so large. She stared eastward, her expression horrified, eyes wide and sorrowful. It was the face of a child watching a brutal murder that stole her innocence. Kaladin turned and slowly looked in the direction she was staring. Toward the Tower. Toward Dalinar Kholins desperate army. The sight of them twisted his heart. They fought so hopelessly. Surrounded. Abandoned. Left alone to die. We have a bridge, Kaladin realized. If we could get it set Most of the Parshendi were focused on the Alethi army, with only a token reserve force down at the base near the chasm. It was a small enough group that perhaps the bridgemen could contain them. But no. That was idiocy. There were thousands of Parshendi soldiers blocking Kholins path to the chasm. And how would the bridgemen set their bridge, with no archers to support them? Several of the bridgemen returned from their quick scavenge. Rock joined Kaladin, staring eastward, expression becoming grim. This thing is terrible, he said. Can we not do something to help? Kaladin shook his head. It would be suicide, Rock. Wed have to run a full assault without an army to support us. Couldnt we just go back a little of the way? Skar asked. Wait to see if Kholin can cut his way down to us? If he does, then we could set our bridge. No, Kaladin said. If we stayed out of range, Kholin would assume us to be scouts left by Sadeas. Well have to charge the chasm. Otherwise hed never come down to meet us. That made the bridgemen pale. Besides, Kaladin added. If we did somehow save some of those men, theyd talk, and Sadeas would know we still live. Hed hunt us down and kill us.