A passage from The Way of Kings came to Dalinars head unbidden. Hed been listening to readings from the book more often than hed represented to Adolin. I once saw a spindly man carrying a stone larger than his head upon his back, the passage went. He stumbled beneath the weight, shirtless under the sun, wearing only a loincloth. He tottered down a busy thoroughfare. People made way for him. Not because they sympathized with him, but because they feared the momentum of his steps. You dare not impede one such as this. The monarch is like this man, stumbling along, the weight of a kingdom on his shoulders. Many give way before him, but so few are willing to step in and help carry the stone. They do not wish to attach themselves to the work, lest they condemn themselves to a life full of extra burdens. I left my carriage that day and took up the stone, lifting it for the man. I believe my guards were embarrassed. One can ignore a poor shirtless wretch doing such labor, but none ignore a king sharing the load. Perhaps we should switch places more often. If a king is seen to assume the burden of the poorest of men, perhaps there will be those who will help him with his own load, so invisible, yet so daunting. Dalinar was shocked that he could remember the story word for word, though he probably shouldnt have been. In searching for the meaning behind Gavilars last message, hed listened to readings from the book almost every day of the last few months. Hed been disappointed to find that there was no clear meaning behind the quote Gavilar had left. Hed continued to listen anyway, though he tried to keep his interest quiet. The book did not have a good reputation, and not just because it was associated with the Lost Radiants. Stories of a king doing the work of a menial laborer were the least of its discomforting passages. In other places, it outright said that lighteyes were beneath darkeyes. That contradicted Vorin teachings. Yes, best to keep this quiet. Dalinar had spoken truly when hed told Adolin he didnt care what people said about him. But when the rumors impeded his ability to protect Elhokar, they could become dangerous. He had to be careful. He turned his mount and clopped up onto the bridge, then nodded his thanks to the bridgemen. They were the lowest in the army, and yet they bore the weight of kings.