When she drew, she didnt feel as if she worked with only charcoal and paper. In drawing a portrait, her medium was the soul itself. There were plants from which one could remove a tiny cuttinga leaf, or a bit of stemthen plant it and grow a duplicate. When she collected a Memory of a person, she was snipping free a bud of their soul, and she cultivated and grew it on the page. Charcoal for sinew, paper pulp for bone, ink for blood, the papers texture for skin. She fell into a rhythm, a cadence, the scratching of her pencil like the sound of breathing from those she depicted. Creationspren began to gather around her pad, looking at her work. Like other spren, they were said to always be around, but usually invisible. Sometimes you attracted them. Sometimes you didnt. With drawing, skill seemed to make a difference. Creationspren were of medium size, as tall as one of her fingers, and they glowed with a faint silvery light. They transformed perpetually, taking new shapes. Usually the shapes were things they had seen recently. An urn, a person, a table, a wheel, a nail. Always of the same silvery color, always the same diminutive height. They imitated shapes exactly, but moved them in strange ways. A table would roll like a wheel, an urn would shatter and repair itself. Her drawing gathered about a half-dozen of them, pulling them by her act of creation just as a bright fire would draw flamespren. Shed learned to ignore them. They werent substantialif she moved her arm through one, its figure would smear like scattered sand, then reform. She never felt a thing when touching one. Eventually, she held up the page, satisfied. It depicted Yalb and the porter in detail, with hints of the busy city behind. Shed gotten their eyes right. That was the most important. Each of the Ten Essences had an analogous part of the human bodyblood for liquid, hair for wood, and so forth. The eyes were associated with crystal and glass. The windows into a persons mind and spirit. She set the page aside. Some men collected trophies. Others collected weapons or shields. Many collected spheres. Shallan collected people. People, and interesting creatures. Perhaps it was because shed spent so much of her youth in a virtual prison. Shed developed the habit of memorizing faces, then drawing them later, after her father had discovered her sketching the gardeners. His daughter? Drawing pictures of darkeyes? Hed been furious with herone of the infrequent times hed directed his infamous temper at his daughter. After that, shed done drawings of people only when in private, instead using her open drawing times to sketch the insects, crustaceans, and plants of the manor gardens. Her father hadnt minded thiszoology and botany were proper