I cant help it, she said. Im sweet, colorful, and delicious. You have the colorful part right, he said, obviously amused at her deep blush. And the sweet part. Cant speak for your deliciousness. Kabsal! she exclaimed, though she wasnt entirely shocked. Shed once told herself that he was interested in her only in order to protect her soul, but that was getting more and more difficult to believe. He stopped by at least once a week. He chuckled at her embarrassment, but that only made her blush further. Stop it! She held her hand up in front of her eyes. My face must be the color of my hair! You shouldnt say such things; youre a man of religion. But still a man, Shallan. One who said his interest in me was only academic. Yes, academic, he said idly. Involving many experiments and much firsthand field research. Kabsal! He laughed deeply, taking a bite of his bread. Im sorry, Brightness Shallan. But it gets such a reaction! She grumbled, lowering her hand, but knew that he said the thingsin part because she encouraged him. She couldnt help it. Nobody had ever shown her the kind of interest that he, increasingly, did. She liked himliked talking with him, liked listening to him. It was a wonderful way to break the monotony of study. There was, of course, no prospect for a union. Assuming she could protect her family, shed be needed to make a good political marriage. Dallying with an ardent owned by the king of Kharbranth wouldnt serve anyone. Ill soon have to start hinting to him the truth, she thought. He has to know that this wont go anywhere. Doesnt he? He leaned toward her. You really are what you seem, arent you, Shallan? Capable? Intelligent? Charming? He smiled. Genuine. I wouldnt say that, she said. You are. I see it in you. Its not that Im genuine. Im naive. I lived my entire childhood in my familys manor. You dont have the air of a recluse about you. Youre so at ease at conversation. I had to become so. I spent most of my childhood in my own company, and I detest boring conversation partners. He smiled, though his eyes held concern. It seems a shame that one such as