No, Danlan said, smiling. Its Brightlord Resi. Thereve been some vocal provocations from Thanadal, and this might serve to shut his mouth. She looked at Adolin fondly. Ill meet you there. Thanks, he said, rising, doing up the buttons on his coat. He kissed Danlans freehand, waved to the others, and trotted out onto the street. That was something of an abrupt departure for me, he thought. Will they see how uncomfortable the discussion made me? Probably not. They didnt know him as Renarin did. Adolin liked to be familiar with a large number of people, but not terribly close with any of them. He didnt even know Danlan that well yet. He would make his relationship with her last, though. He was tired of Renarin teasing him for jumping in and out of courtships. Danlan was very pretty; it seemed the courtship could work. He passed through the Outer Market, Torals words weighing on him. Adolin didnt want to become highprince. He wasnt ready. He liked dueling and chatting with his friends. Leading the army was one thingbut as highprince, hed have to think of other things. Such as the future of the war on the Shattered Plains, or protecting and advising the king. That shouldnt have to be our problem, he thought. But it was as his father always said. If they didnt do it, who would? The Outer Market was far more disorganized than the markets inside Dalinars warcamp. Here, the ramshackle buildingsmostly built of stone blocks quarried from nearbyhad grown up without any specific plan. A large number of the merchants were Thaylen, with their typical caps, vests, and long, wagging eyebrows. The busy market was one of the few places where soldiers from all ten warcamps mingled. In fact, that had become one of the main functions of the place; it was neutral ground where men and women from different warcamps could meet. It also provided a market that wasnt heavily regulated, though Dalinar had stepped in to provide some rules once the marketplace had begun to show signs of lawlessness. Adolin nodded to a passing group of Kholin soldiers in blue, who saluted him. They were on patrol, halberds held at their shoulders, helms gleaming. Dalinars troops patrolled this place, and his scribes watched over it. All at his own cost. His father didnt like the layout of the Outer Market or its lack of walls. He said that a raid could be catastrophic to it, that it violated the spirit of the Codes. But it had been years since the Parshendi had raided the Alethi side of the Plains. And if they did decide to strike at the warcamps, the scouts and guards would give ample warning.