whats really happening. Sadeas looked down at Dalinars hand on his arm. Would you let go? Dalinar released his grip. Sadeas set down his plate, straightening his robe and dusting off the shoulder. I havent give up on you yet, Dalinar. Im probably going to need you before this is all through. I do have to say, though, I dont know what to make of you lately. That talk of you wanting to abandon the Vengeance Pact. Is there any truth to that? I mentioned it, in confidence, to Elhokar as a means of exploring options. So yes, theres truth to it, if you must know. Im tired of this fighting. Im tired of these Plains, of being away from civilization, of killing Parshendi a handful at a time. However, Ive given up on getting us to retreat. Instead, I want to win . But the highprinces wont listen! They all assume that Im trying to dominate them with some crafty trick. Sadeas snorted. Youd sooner punch a man in the face than stab him in the back. Blessedly straightforward. Ally with me, Dalinar said after him. Sadeas froze. You know Im not going to betray you, Sadeas, Dalinar said. You trust me as the others never can. Try what Ive been trying to get the other highprinces to agree to. Jointly assault plateaus with me. Wont work, Sadeas said. Theres no reason to bring more than one army on an assault. I leave half my troops behind each time as it is. There isnt room for more to maneuver. Yes, but think, Dalinar said. What if we tried new tactics? Your quick bridge crews are fast, but my troops are stronger. What if you pushed quickly to a plateau with an advance force to hold off the Parshendi? You could hold until my stronger, but slower, forces arrive. That gave Sadeas pause. It could mean a Shardblade, Sadeas. Sadeass eyes grew hungry. I know youve fought Parshendi Shardbearers, Dalinar said, seizing on that thread, But youve lost. Without a Blade, youre at a disadvantage. Parshendi Shardbearers had a habit of escaping after entering battles. Regular spearmen couldnt kill one, of course. It took a Shardbearer to kill a Shardbearer. Ive slain two in the past. I dont often have the opportunity, however, because I cant get to the plateaus quickly enough. You can. Together, we can win more often, and I can get you a Blade. We can do this, Sadeas. Together. Like the old days.