Doesnt work that way, Av said. Its not a game, no matter how the stories try to put it. The Nightwatcher doesnt trick you or twist your words. You ask a boon. She gives what she feels you deserve, then gives you a curse to go along with it. Sometimes related, sometimes not. And youre an expert? Baxil asked. The mistress was slashing another painting. I thought you said you never went. I didnt, Av said. On account of my father going, my mother going, and each of my brothers going. A few got what they wanted. Most all of them regretted the curse, save my father. He got a heap of good cloth; sold to keep us from starving during the lurnip famine a few decades ago. What was his curse? Baxil said. Saw the world upside down from then on. Really? Yeah, Av said. Twisted all about. Like people walk on the ceilings and the sky was underneath him. Said he got used to it pretty quickly, though, and didnt really think it a curse by the time he died. Even thinking about that curse made Baxil feel sick. He looked down at his sack of tools. If he werent such a coward, would hemaybebe able to convince the mistress to see him as something more than just hired muscle? If the Prime Kadasix could provide, he thought, it would be very nice if I could know the right thing to do. Thank you. The mistress returned, hair somewhat disheveled. She held out a hand. Padded mallet, Baxil. Theres a full statue back there. He responded, pulling the mallet out of the sack and handing it to her. Perhaps I should get myself a Shardblade, she said absently, putting the tool up on her shoulder. But that might make this too easy. I wouldnt mind if it were too easy, mistress, Baxil noted. She sniffed, walking back down the hallway. Soon she began to pound on a statue at the far end, breaking off its arms. Baxil winced. Someones going to hear that. Yeah, Av said. Probably why she waited to do it last. At least the pounding was muffled by the padding. They had to be the only thieves who sneaked into the homes of rich men without taking anything. Why does she do this, Av? Baxil found himself asking. Dont know. Maybe you should ask her. I thought you said I should never do that! Depends, Av said. How attached to your limbs are you? Rather attached. Well, if you ever want that changed, start asking the mistress prying