cracks or broken tops. Kaladin set down his bundles, then selected three nearly whole bottles. He washed them in a nearby water barrel before tucking them into a sack hed brought for the purpose. He picked up his bundles again, nodding to the others. Try to look like youre doing something monotonous, he said. Bow your heads. The other two nodded, and they walked out into a main road, carrying the bundles as if on some work detail. They drew far less attention than they had before. They avoided the lumberyard proper, crossing the open field of rock used as the armys staging area before walking down the slope of rock leading to the Shattered Plains. A sentry saw them, and Kaladin held his breath, but he said nothing. He probably assumed from their postures that they had a reason to be doing what they were. If they tried to leave the warcamp, it would be a different story, but this section down near the first few chasms wasnt off limits. Before long, they approached the place where Kaladin had nearly killed himself. What a difference a few days could make. He felt like a different person a strange hybrid of the man he had once been, the slave hed become, and the pitiful wretch he still had to fight off. He remembered standing on the edge of the chasm, looking down. That darkness still terrified him. If I fail to save the bridgemen, that wretch will take control again. This time hell get his way. That gave Kaladin a shiver. He set his bundles down beside the chasm ledge, then sat. The other two followed more hesitantly. Were going to toss them into the chasm? Teft asked, scratching his beard. After all that work? Of course not, Kaladin said. He hesitated; Nomon was bright, but it was still night. You dont have any spheres, do you? Why? Teft asked, suspicious. For light, Teft. Teft grumbled, pulling out a handful of garnet chips. Was going to spend these tonight. he said. They glowed in his palm. All right, Kaladin said, slipping out a reed. What had his father said about these? Hesitantly, Kaladin broke off the furry top of the reed, exposing the hollow center. He took the reed by the other end and ran his fingers down its length, squeezing it tight. Two drops of milky white liquid dripped into the empty liquor bottle. Kaladin smiled in satisfaction, then squeezed his fingers along the length again. Nothing came out this time, so he tossed the reed into the chasm. For all his talk of hats, he didnt want to leave evidence. I thought you said we arent throwing them in! Teft accused. Kaladin held up the liquor bottle. Only after we have this out.