As if in response to his thoughts, Lirins voice called from nearby. Hesina! Kals mother turned, smiling and tucking a stray lock of dark hair back into her kerchief. Kals father rushed down the street, his face anxious. Kal felt a sudden jolt of worry. Who was wounded? Why hadnt Lirin sent for him? What is it? Kals mother asked, climbing down. Hes here, Hesina, Kals father said. About time. Who? Kal asked, jumping down from the stepladder. Whos here? The new citylord, son, Lirin said, his breath puffing in the cold air. His name is Brightlord Roshone. No time to change, Im afraid. Not if we want to catch his first speech. Come on! The three of them hurried away, Kals thoughts and worries banished in the face of the chance to meet a new lighteyes. He didnt send word ahead, Lirin said under his breath. That could be a good sign, Hesina replied. Maybe he doesnt feel he needs everyone to dote on him. That, or hes inconsiderate. Stormfather, I hate getting a new Landed. Always makes me feel like Im throwing a handful of stones into a game of breakneck. Will we throw the queen or the tower? We shall see soon enough, Hesina said, glancing at Kal. Dont let your fathers words unnerve you. He always gets pessimistic at times like this. I do not , Lirin said. She gave him a look. Name one other time. Meeting my parents. Kals father pulled up short, blinking. Stormwinds, he muttered, lets hope this doesnt go half as poorly as that. Kal listened with curiosity. Hed never met his mothers parents; they werent often spoken of. Soon, the three of them reached the south side of town. A crowd was gathered, and Tien was already there, waiting. He waved in his excitable way, jumping up and down. Wish I had half that boys energy, Lirin said. Ive got a place for us picked out! Tien called eagerly, pointing. By the rain barrels! Come on! Were going to miss it! Tien scurried over, climbing atop the barrels. Several of the towns other boys noticed him, and they nudged one another, one making some comment Kal couldnt hear. It set the others laughing at Tien, and that immediately made Kal furious. Tien didnt deserve mockery just because he was a little small for his age.