safehand. Shed transferred her safepouch to the robe, buttoning it inside the left sleeve. Nobody had looked in the pouch. When shed been washed, theyd unbuttoned it and given it to her without a word, despite its unusual weight. One did not look in a womans safepouch. Still, she kept hold of it whenever she could. In the hospital, her every need was seen to, but she could not leave. It reminded her of being at home on her fathers estates. More and more, that frightened her as much as the symbolheads did. Shed tasted independence, and she didnt want to go back to what she had been. Coddled, pampered, displayed. Unfortunately, it was unlikely shed be able to return to studying with Jasnah. Her supposed suicide attempt gave her an excellent reason to return home. She had to go. To remain, sending the Soulcaster away on its own, would be selfish considering this opportunity to leave without arousing suspicion. Besides, shed used the Soulcaster. She could use the long trip home to figure out how shed done it, then be ready to help her family when she arrived. She sighed, and then with a few shadings, she finished her sketch. It was a picture of that strange place she had gone. That distant horizon with its powerful yet cold sun. Clouds running toward it above, endless ocean below, making the sun look as if it were at the end of a long tunnel. Above the ocean hovered hundreds of flames, a sea of lights above the sea of glass beads. She lifted the picture up, looking at the sketch underneath. It depicted her, huddled on her bed, surrounded by the strange creatures. She didnt dare tell Jasnah what she had seen, lest it reveal that she had Soulcast, and therefore committed the theft. The next picture was one of her, lying on the ground amid the blood. She looked up from the sketchpad. A white-clothed female ardent sat against the wall nearby, pretending to sew but really keeping watch in case Shallan decided to harm herself again. Shallan made a thin line of her lips. Its a good cover, she told herself. It works perfectly. Stop being so embarrassed. She turned to the last of her days sketches. It depicted one of the symbolheads. No eyes, no face, just that jagged alien symbol with points like cut crystal. They had to have something to do with the Soulcasting. Didnt they? I visited another place, she thought. I thinkI think I spoke with the spirit of the goblet. Did a goblet , of all things, have a soul? Upon opening her pouch to check on the Soulcaster, shed found that the sphere Kabsal had given her had stopped glowing. She could remember a vague feeling of light and beauty, a raging storm inside of her.