safehand. On her freehand was a distinctive piece of jewelry: two rings and a bracelet connected by several chains, holding a triangular group of gemstones across the back of the hand. A Soulcasterthe word was used for both the people who performed the process and the fabrial that made it possible. Shallan edged into the room, trying to get a better look at the large, glowing gemstones. Her heart began to beat a little faster. The Soulcaster looked identical to the one she and her brothers had found in the inside pocket of her fathers coat. Jasnah and the man in robes began walking in Shallans direction, still talking. How would Jasnah react, now that her ward had finally caught up to her? Would she be angry because of Shallans tardiness? Shallan couldnt be blamed for that, but people often expect irrational things from their inferiors. Like the grand cavern outside, this hallway was cut from the rock, but it was more richly furbished, with ornate hanging chandeliers made with Stormlit gemstones. Most were deep violet garnets, which were among the less valuable stones. Even so, the sheer number hanging there glistening with violet light would make the chandelier worth a small fortune. More than that, however, Shallan was impressed with the symmetry of the design and the beauty of the pattern of crystals hanging at the sides of the chandelier. As Jasnah grew near, Shallan could hear some of what she was saying. realize that this action might prompt an unfavorable reaction from the devotaries? the woman said, speaking in Alethi. It was very near to Shallans native Veden, and shed been taught to speak it well during her childhood. Yes, Brightness, said the robed man. He was elderly, with a wispy white beard, and had pale grey eyes. His open, kindly face seemed very concerned, and he wore a squat, cylindrical hat that matched the orange and white of his robes. Rich robes. Was this some kind of royal steward, perhaps? No. Those gemstones on his fingers, the way he carried himself, the way other lighteyed attendants deferred to him Stormfather! Shallan thought. This has to be the king himself! Not Jasnahs brother, Elhokar, but the king of Kharbranth. Taravangian. Shallan hastily performed an appropriate curtsy, which Jasnah noted. The ardents have much sway here, Your Majesty, Jasnah said with a smooth voice. As do I, the king said. You neednt worry about me. Very well, Jasnah said. Your terms are agreeable. Lead me to the location, and I shall see what can be done. If you will excuse me as we walk, however, I have someone to attend to. Jasnah made a curt motion toward