placing himself between the woman and the beasts. Vision, memory, or delusion, he could not stand aside. Heb, the woman said, her voice nervous. Who did she see him as? Her husband? A farmhand? Dont be a fool! You dont know how The beasts attacked. Dalinar leapt forwardremaining in motion was the essence of Smokestanceand spun between the creatures, striking to the side with his poker. He hit the one on the left, ripping a gash in its too-smooth skin. The wound bled smoke. Moving behind the creatures, Dalinar swung again, sweeping low at the feet of the unwounded beast, knocking it off balance. With the follow-through, he slammed the side of the poker into the face of the wounded beast as it turned and snapped at him. The old Thrill, the sense of battle, consumed him. It did not enrage him, as it did some men, but everything seemed to become clearer, crisper. His muscles moved easily; he breathed more deeply. He came alive . He leaped backward as the creatures pressed at him. With a kick, he knocked over the table, tumbling it at one of the beasts. He drove the poker at the open maw of the other. As he had hoped, the inside of its mouth was sensitive. The creature let out a pained hiss and scrambled back. Dalinar moved to the overturned table and kicked off one of the legs. He scooped it up, falling into Smokestances sword-and-knife form. He used the wooden leg to fend off one creature while he thrust three times at the face of the other, ripping a gash in its cheek that bled smoke; it came out as a hiss. There were distant screams outside. Blood of my fathers, he thought. These arent the only two. He needed to be done, and quickly. If the fight dragged on, theyd wear him down faster than he wore them down. Who even knew if beasts like this got tired? Bellowing, he jumped forward. Sweat streamed from his forehead, and the room seemed to grow just faintly darker. Or, no, more focused. Just him and the beasts. The only wind was that of his weapons spinning, the only sound that of his feet hitting the floor, the only vibration that of his heart thumping. His sudden whirlwind of blows shocked the creatures. He smashed the table leg against one, forcing it back, then threw himself at the other one, earning a rake of the claws against his arm as he rammed the poker into the beasts chest. The skin resisted at first, but then broke, his poker moving through easily after that. A powerful jet of smoke burst out around Dalinars hand. He pulled his arm free, and the creature stumbled back, legs growing thinner, body deflating like a leaking wineskin.