Roshone can take what is honest and true in men and twist it into a mess of sludge to walk on. He took a sip, finishing the wine. We should just spend the spheres, Kal said. Or send them somewhere, to a moneylender or something. If they were gone, hed leave us alone. No, Lirin said softly. Roshone is not the kind to spare a man once he is beaten. Hes the type who keeps kicking. I dont know what political mistake landed him in this place, but he obviously cant get revenge on his rivals. So were all he has. Lirin paused. Poor fool. Poor fool? Kal thought. Hes trying to destroy our lives, and thats all Father can say? What of the stories men sang at the hearths? Tales of clever herdsmen outwitting and overthrowing a foolish lighteyed man. There were dozens of variations, and Kal had heard them all. Shouldnt Lirin fight back somehow? Do something other than sit and wait? But he didnt say anything; he knew exactly what Lirin would say. Let me worry about it. Get back to your studies. Sighing, Kal settled back in his chair, opening his folio again. The surgery room was dim, lit by the four spheres on the table and a single one Kal used for reading. Lirin kept most of the spheres closed up in their cupboard, hidden away. Kal held up his own sphere, lighting the page. There were longer explanations of procedures in the back that his mother could read to him. She was the only woman in the town who could read, though Lirin said it wasnt uncommon among wellborn darkeyed women in the cities. As he studied, Kal idly pulled something from his pocket. A rock that had been sitting on his chair for him when hed come in to study. He recognized it as a favorite one that Tien had been carrying around recently. Now hed left it for Kaladin; he often did that, hoping that his older brother would be able to see the beauty in it too, though they all just looked like ordinary rocks. Hed have to ask Tien what he found so special about this particular one. There was always something. Tien spent his days now learning carpentry from Ral, one of the men in the town. Lirin had set him to it reluctantly; hed been hoping for another surgery assistant, but Tien couldnt stand the sight of blood. He froze every time, and hadnt gotten used to it. That was troubling. Kal had hoped that his father would have Tien as an assistant when he left. And Kal was leaving, one way or another. He hadnt decided between the army or Kharbranth, though in recent months, hed begun leaning toward becoming a spearman. If he took that route, hed have to do it stealthily, once he was old enough that the recruiters would take him over his parents objections. Fifteen would