How is that a curse, my friend? Rock asked, chuckling. He jumped up and into a puddle and laughed louder as it splashed Teft, who was walking just behind. The large Horneater could be remarkably childlike at times. Living, this thing is no curse! It is if it brings me back to watch you all die, Kaladin said. Better I shouldnt have survived that storm. Im just going to end up dead from a Parshendi arrow. We all are. Rock looked troubled. When Kaladin offered nothing more, he withdrew. They continued, uncomfortably passing sections of scarred wall where chasmfiends had left their marks. Eventually they stumbled across a heap of bodies deposited by the highstorms. Kaladin stopped, holding up his torch, the other bridgemen peeking around him. Some fifty people had been washed into a recess in the rock, a small dead-end side passage in the stone. The bodies were piled there, a wall of the dead, arms hanging out, reeds and flotsam stuck between them. Kaladin saw at a glance that the corpses were old enough to begin bloating and rotting. Behind him, one of the men retched, which caused a few of the others to do so as well. The scent was terrible, the corpses slashed and ripped into by cremlings and larger carrion beasts, many of which scuttled away from the light. A disembodied hand lay nearby, and a trail of blood led away. There were also fresh scrapes in the lichen as high as fifteen feet up the wall. A chasmfiend had ripped one of the bodies loose to devour. It might come back for the others. Kaladin didnt retch. He shoved his half-burned torch between two large stones, then got to work, pulling bodies from the pile. At least they werent rotted enough to come apart. The bridgemen slowly filled in around him, working. Kaladin let his mind grow numb, not thinking. Once the bodies were down, the bridgemen laid them in a line. Then they began pulling off their armor, searching their pockets, taking knives from belts. Kaladin left gathering the spears to the others, working by himself off to the side. Teft knelt beside Kaladin, rolling over a body with a head smashed by the fall. The shorter man began to undo the straps on the fallen mans breastplate. Do you want to talk? Kaladin didnt say anything. He just kept working. Dont think about the future. Dont think about what will happen. Just survive. Dont care, but dont despair. Just be. Kaladin. Tefts voice was like a knife, digging into Kaladins shell, making him squirm. If I wanted to talk, Kaladin grumbled, would I be working here by