bulky armor. Shardplate was wonderful and empowering, but beneath a hot sun, it could still leave a man wishing for something less confining. But, of course, he couldnt have worn casual clothing like the others. Adolin was to be in uniform, even on a hunt. The Alethi War Codes commanded it. Never mind that nobody had followed those Codes in centuries. Or at least nobody but Dalinar Kholinand, by extension, his sons. Adolin passed a pair of lounging lighteyes, Vartian and Lomard, two of Sadeass recent hangers-on. They were talking loudly enough that Adolin could hear. Probably on purpose. Chasing after the king again, Vartian said, shaking his head. Like pet axehounds nipping at their masters heels. Shameful, Lomard said. How long has it been since Dalinar won a gemheart? The only time he can get one is when the king lets them hunt it without competition. Adolin set his jaw and rode on. His fathers interpretation of the Codes wouldnt let Adolin challenge a man to a duel while he was on duty or in command. He chafed at the needless restrictions, but Dalinar had spoken as Adolins commanding officer. That meant there was no room for argument. Hed have to find a way to duel the two idiot sycophants in another setting, put them in their places. Unfortunately, he couldnt duel everyone who spoke out against his father. The biggest problem was, the things they said had some real truth to them. The Alethi princedoms were like kingdoms unto themselves, still mostly autonomous despite having accepted Gavilar as king. Elhokar had inherited the throne, and Dalinar, by right, had taken the Kholin Princedom as his own. However, most of the highprinces gave only token nods to the paramount rule of the king. That left Elhokar without land that was specifically his own. He tended to act like a highprince of the Kholin Princedom, taking great interest in its day-to-day management. So, while Dalinar should have been a ruler unto himself, he instead bent to Elhokars whims and dedicated his resources to protecting his nephew. That made him weak in the eyes of the othersnothing more than a glorified bodyguard. Once, when Dalinar had been feared, men had not dared whisper about these things. But now? Dalinar went on fewer and fewer plateau assaults, and his forces lagged behind in capturing precious gemhearts. While the others fought and won, Dalinar and his sons spent their time in bureaucratic administration. Adolin wanted to be out there fighting, killing Parshendi. What was the good of following the Codes of War when he rarely got to go to war? Its the fault of those delusions. Dalinar wasnt weak, and he certainly wasnt a coward, no matter what people said. He was just troubled.