What is it? Rock leaned closer, squinting. Knobweed sap. Or, rather, knobweed milkI dont think its really sap. Anyway, its a powerful antiseptic. Antiwhat? Teft asked. It scares away rotspren, Kaladin said. They cause infection. This milk is one of the best antiseptics there is. Spread it on a wound thats already infected, and it will still work. That was good, because Leytens wounds had begun to turn an angry red, rotspren crawling all over. Teft grunted, then glanced at the bundles. There are a lot of reeds here. I know, Kaladin said, handing over the other two bottles. Thats why Im glad I dont have to milk them all on my own. Teft sighed, but sat down and untied a bundle. Rock did so without the complaining, sitting with his knees bent to the sides, feet pressed together to hold the bottle as he worked. A faint breeze blew up, rattling some of the reeds. Why do you care about them? Teft finally asked. Theyre my men. Thats not what being bridgeleader means. It means whatever we decide, Kaladin said, noting that Syl had come over to listen. You, me, the others. You think theyll let you do that? Teft asked. The lighteyes and the captains? You think theyll pay enough attention to even notice? Teft hesitated, then grunted, milking another reed. Perhaps they will, Rock said. There was a surprising level of delicacy to the large mans motions as he milked the reeds. Kaladin hadnt thought those thick fingers would be so careful, so precise. Lighteyes, they are often noticing those things that you wish they would not. Teft grunted again, agreeing. How did you come here, Rock? Kaladin asked. How does a Horneater end up leaving his mountains and coming to the lowlands? You shouldnt ask those kinds of things, son, Teft said, wagging a finger at Kaladin. We dont talk about our pasts. We dont talk about anything , Kaladin said. You two didnt even know each others names. Names are one thing, Teft grumbled. Backgrounds, theyre different. I  Is all right, Rock said. I will speak of this thing. Teft muttered to himself, but he did lean forward to listen when Rock spoke.