make the same accomplishments the very next month? Would she find similar acclaim? No. Shed be called derivative. Intellect. If a great thinker develops a new theory of mathematics, science, or philosophy, we will name him wise. We will sit at his feet and learn, and will record his name in history for thousands upon thousands to revere. But what if another man determines the same theory on his own, then delays in publishing his results by a mere week? Will he be remembered for his greatness? No. He will be forgotten. Invention. A woman builds a new design of great worthsome fabrial or feat of engineering. She will be known as an innovator. But if someone with the same talent creates the same design a year laternot realizing it has already been craftedwill she be rewarded for her creativity? No. Shell be called a copier and a forger. He plucked at his strings, letting the melody continue, twisting, haunting, yet with a faint edge of mockery. And so, he said, in the end, what must we determine? Is it the intellect of a genius that we revere? If it were their artistry, the beauty of their mind, would we not laud it regardless of whether wed seen their product before? But we dont. Given two works of artistic majesty, otherwise weighted equally, we will give greater acclaim to the one who did it first . It doesnt matter what you create. It matters what you create before anyone else . So its not the beauty itself we admire. Its not the force of intellect. Its not invention, aesthetics, or capacity itself. The greatest talent that we think a man can have? He plucked one final string. Seems to me that it must be nothing more than novelty. The guards looked confused. The gates shook. Something pounded on them from outside. The storm has come, Wit said, standing up. The guards scrambled for spears left leaning beside the wall. They had a guard house, but it was empty; they preferred the night air. The gate shook again, as if something enormous were outside. The guards yelled, calling to the men atop the wall. All was chaos and confusion as the gate thumped yet a third time, powerful, shaking, vibrating as if hit with a boulder. And then a bright, silvery blade rammed between the massive doors, slicing upward, cutting the bar that held them closed. A Shardblade. The gates swung open. The guards scrambled back. Wit waited on his boxes, enthir held in one hand, pack over his shoulder. Outside the gates, standing on the dark stone roadway, was a solitary man with dark skin. His hair was long and matted, his clothing nothing more than a