moved on. I need an officer! Whos in command of the retreat? Ahead, he could make out a figure in scratched blue Shardplate, fighting at the front of group. That would be Dalinars son Adolin. He was busy holding the Parshendi off; bothering him would not be wise. Over here, a man called. Ive found Brightlord Havar! Hes commander of the rear guard! Finally , Kaladin thought, rushing through the chaos to find a bearded lighteyed man lying on the ground, coughing blood. Kaladin looked him over, noting the enormous gut wound. Whos his second? Dead, said the man beside the commander. He was lighteyed. And you are? Kaladin asked. Nacomb Gaval. He looked young, younger than Kaladin. Youre promoted, Kaladin said. Get these men across the bridge as quickly as possible. If anyone asks, youve been given a field commission as commander of the rear guard. If anyone claims to outrank you, send them to me. The man started. Promoted Who are you? Can you do that? Someone needs to, Kaladin snapped. Go. Get to work. I  Go!  Kaladin bellowed. Remarkably, the lighteyed man saluted him and began yelling for his squad. Kholins men were wounded, battered, and dazed, but they were well trained. Once someone took command, orders passed quickly. Squads crossed the bridge, falling into marching formations. Likely, in the confusion, they clung to these familiar patterns. Within minutes, the central mass of Kholins army was flowing across the bridge like sand in an hourglass. The ring of fighting contracted. Still, men screamed and died in the anarchic tumult of sword against shield and spear against metal. Kaladin hurriedly pulled the carapace off his armorenraging the Parshendi didnt feel wise at the momentthen moved among the wounded, looking for more officers. He found a couple, though they were dazed, wounded, and out of breath. Apparently, those who were still battleworthy were leading the two flanks who held back the Parshendi. Trailed by Moash, Kaladin hurried to the central front line, where the Alethi seemed to be holding the best. Here, finally, he found someone in command: a tall, stately lighteyes with a steel breastplate and matching helm, his uniform a darker shade of blue than the others. He directed the fighting from just behind the front lines.