surveyor had Shallan and her brothers discovered the truth: Her father, using his forbidden Soulcaster, had been creating new deposits at a careful rate. Not enough to be suspicious. Just enough to give him the money he needed to further his political goals. Nobody knew where hed gotten the fabrial, which she now carried in her safepouch. It was unusable, damaged on the same disastrous evening that her father had died. Dont think about that, she told herself forcefully. Theyd had a jeweler repair the broken Soulcaster, but it no longer worked. Their house stewardone of her fathers close confidants, an advisor named Lueshhad been trained to use the device, and he could no longer make it function. Her fathers debts and promises were outrageous. Their choices were limited. Her family had some timeperhaps as long as a yearbefore the missed payments became egregious, and before her fathers absence became obvious. For once, her familys isolated, backcountry estates were an advantage, providing a reason that communications were being delayed. Her brothers were scrambling, writing letters in her fathers name, making a few appearances and spreading rumors that Brightlord Davar was planning something big. All to give her time to make good on her bold plan. Find Jasnah Kholin. Become her ward. Learn where she kept her Soulcaster. Then replace it with the nonfunctional one. With the fabrial, theyd be able to make new quarries and restore their wealth. Theyd be able to make food to feed their house soldiers. With enough wealth in hand to pay off debts and make bribes, they could announce their fathers death and not suffer destruction. Shallan hesitated in the main hallway, considering her next move. What she planned to do was very risky. Shed have to escape without implicating herself in the theft. Though shed devoted much thought to that, she still didnt know how shed manage it. But Jasnah was known to have many enemies. There had to be a way to pin the fabrials breaking on them instead. That step would come later. For now, Shallan had to convince Jasnah to accept her as a ward. All other results were unacceptable. Nervously, Shallan held her arms in the sign of need, covered safehand bent across her chest and touching the elbow of her freehand, which was raised with fingers outspread. A woman approached, wearing the well-starched white laced shirt and black skirt that were the universal sign of a master-servant. The stout woman curtsied. Brightness? The Palanaeum, Shallan said. The woman bowed and led Shallan farther into the depths of the long