a disaster. And it had been a disaster. A minor lighteyed officer approached, carrying a final list of casualties. The mans wife read it, then they left him with the sheet and retreated. There were nearly fifty men dead, twice as many wounded. Many were men Adolin had known. When the king had been given the initial estimate, he had brushed aside the deaths, indicating that theyd be rewarded for their valor with positions in the Heraldic Forces above. He seemed to have conveniently forgotten that hed have been one of the casualties himself, if not for Dalinar. Adolin sought out his father with his eyes; Dalinar stood at the edge of the plateau, looking eastward again. What did he search for out there? This wasnt the first time Adolin had seen such extraordinary actions from his father, but they had seemed particularly dramatic. Standing beneath the massive chasmfiend, holding it back from killing his nephew, Plate glowing. That image was fixed in Adolins memory. The other lighteyes stepped more lightly around Dalinar now, and during the last few hours, Adolin hadnt heard a single mention of his weakness, not even from Sadeass men. He feared it wouldnt last. Dalinar was heroic, but only infrequently. In the weeks that followed, the others would begin to talk again of how he rarely went on plateau assaults, about how hed lost his edge. Adolin found himself thirsting for more. Today when Dalinar had leaped to protect Elhokar, hed acted like the stories said he had during his youth. Adolin wanted that man back. The kingdom needed him. Adolin sighed, turning away. He needed to give the final casualty report to the king. Likely hed be mocked for it, but perhapsin waiting to deliver ithe might be able to listen in on Sadeas. Adolin still felt he was missing something about that man. Something his father saw, but he did not. So, steeling himself for the barbs, he made his way toward the pavilion. Dalinar faced eastward with gauntleted hands clasped behind his back. Somewhere out there, at the center of the Plains, the Parshendi made their base camp. Alethkar had been at war for nearly six years, engaging in an extended siege. The siege strategy had been suggested by Dalinar himselfstriking at the Parshendi base would have required camping on the Plains, weathering highstorms, and relying on a large number of fragile bridges. One failed battle, and the Alethi could have found themselves trapped and surrounded, without any