There was a stillness across the square. Even the rain seemed to hesitate for a moment. Then, all eyes turned toward Tien. The boy looked dumbfounded. Lirin was immune as town surgeon, Kaladin immune as his apprentice. But not Tien. He was a carpenters third apprentice, not vital, not immune. Hesina gripped Tien tightly. No! Lirin stepped in front of them, defensive. Kaladin stood stunned, looking at Roshone. Smiling, self-satisfied Roshone. We took his son, Kaladin realized, meeting those beady eyes. This is his revenge. I Tien said. The military? For once, he seemed to lose his confidence, his optimism. His eyes opened wide, and he grew very pale. He fainted when he saw blood. He hated fighting. He was still small and spindly despite his age. Hes too young, Lirin declared. Their neighbors sidled away, leaving Lirins family to stand alone in the rain. Amaram frowned. In the cities, youths as young as eight and nine are accepted into the military. Lighteyed sons! Lirin said. To be trained as officers. They arent sent into battle! Amaram frowned more deeply. He stepped out into the rain, walking up to the family. How old are you, son? he asked Tien. Hes thirteen, Lirin said. Amaram glanced at him. The surgeon. Ive heard of you. He sighed, glancing back at Amaram. I havent the time to engage in your petty, small- town politics, cousin. Isnt there another boy that will do? It is my choice! Roshone insisted. Given me by the dictates of law. I send those the town can sparewell, that boy is the first one we can spare. Lirin stepped forward, eyes full of anger. Highmarshal Amaram caught him by the arm. Do not do something you would regret, darkborn. Roshone has acted according to the law. You hid behind the law, sneering at me, surgeon, Roshone called to Lirin. Well, now it turns against you . Keep those spheres! The look on your face at this moment is worth the price of every one of them! I Tien said again. Kaladin had never seen the boy so terrified. Kaladin felt powerless. The crowds eyes were on Lirin, standing with his arm in the grip of the lighteyed general, locking his gaze with Roshone. Ill make the lad a runner boy for a year or two, Amaram promised. He wont be in combat. It is the best I can do. Every body is needed in these times. Lirin slumped, then bowed his head. Roshone laughed, motioning Laral toward the carriage. She didnt glance at Kaladin as she climbed back in.