Every one of them? The people in this room? We try to select only the worst cases to move here, for once they are brought to this place, we cannot let them leave if they begin to recover. He turned to Szeth, eyes sorrowful. Sometimes we need more bodies than the terminally sick can provide. And so we must bring the forgotten and the lowly. Those who will not be missed. Szeth couldnt speak. He couldnt voice his horror and revulsion. In front of him, one of the victimsa man in his younger yearsexpired. Two of those remaining were children. Szeth stepped forward. He had to stop this. He had to  You will still yourself, Taravangian said. And you will return to my side. Szeth did as his master commanded. What were a few more deaths? Just another set of screams to haunt him. He could hear them now, coming from beneath beds, behind furniture. Or I could kill him, Szeth thought. I could stop this. He nearly did it. But honor prevailed, for the moment. You see, Szeth-son-son-Vallano, Taravangian said. I did not send you to do my bloody work for me. I do it here, myself. I have personally held the knife and released the blood from the veins of many. Much like you, I know I cannot escape my sins. We are two men of one heart. This is one reason why I sought you out. But why ? Szeth said. On the beds, a dying youth started speaking. One of the women with the clipboards stepped forward quickly, recording the words. The day was ours, but they took it, the boy cried. Stormfather! You cannot have it. The day is ours. They come, rasping, and the lights fail. Oh, Stormfather! The boy arched his back, then fell still suddenly, eyes dead. The king turned to Szeth. It is better for one man to sin than for a people to be destroyed, wouldnt you say, Szeth-son-son-Vallano? I We do not know why some speak when others do not, Taravangian said. But the dying see something. It began seven years ago, about the time when King Gavilar was investigating the Shattered Plains for the first time. His eyes grew distant. It is coming, and these people see it. On that bridge between life and the endless ocean of death, they view something. Their words might save us. You are a monster. Yes, Taravangian said. But I am the monster who will save this world.