was never an exact science. Dalinar narrowed his eyes, heart thumping. Yes, he could sense the signs now. The dust picking up, the scents changing. It was evening, but there should still be more light left. Instead, it was rapidly growing darker and darker. The very air felt more frantic. Should we go to Aladars camp? Renarin said, pointing. They were nearest Highprince Aladars warcamp, and perhaps only a quarter-hour ride from the rim of Dalinars own. Aladars men would take him in. Nobody would forbid shelter to a highprince during a storm. But Dalinar shuddered, thinking of spending a highstorm trapped in an unfamiliar place, surrounded by another highprinces attendants. They would see him during an episode. Once that happened, the rumors would spread like arrows above a battlefield. We ride! he called, kicking Gallant into motion. Renarin and the guardsmen fell in behind him, hooves a thunder to precurse the coming highstorm. Dalinar leaned low, tense. The grey sky grew clotted with dust and leaves blown ahead of the stormwall and the air grew dense with humid anticipation. The horizon burgeoned with thickening clouds. Dalinar and the others galloped past Aladars perimeter guards, who bustled with activity, holding their coats or cloaks against the wind. Father? Renarin called from behind. Are you We have time! Dalinar shouted. They eventually reached the jagged wall of the Kholin warcamp. Here, the remaining soldiers wore blue and white and saluted. Most had already retreated to their enclosures. He had to slow Gallant to get through the checkpoint. However, it would just be another short gallop to his quarters. He turned Gallant, preparing to go. Father! Renarin said, pointing eastward. The stormwall hung like a curtain in the air, speeding toward the camp. The massive sheet of rain was a silvery grey, the clouds above onyx black, lit from within by occasional flashes of lightning. The guards who had saluted him were hurrying to a nearby bunker. We can make it, Dalinar said. We Father! Renarin said, riding up beside him and catching his arm. Im sorry. The wind whipped at them, and Dalinar gritted his teeth, looking at his son. Renarins spectacled eyes were wide with concern. Dalinar glanced at the stormwall again. It was only moments away. Hes right. He handed Gallants reins to an anxious soldier, who took the reins of