The two stared at one another. Dalinar fought to keep his anger contained. In many ways, he and Adolin were too similar. They understood one another, and that enabled them to push in places that hurt. Well, Renarin said, what if we proved whether or not the visions were true? Dalinar glanced at him. What? You say these dreams are detailed, Renarin said, leaning forward with hands clasped in front of him. What, exactly, do you see? Dalinar hesitated, then gulped down the rest of his wine. For once he wished he had intoxicating violet instead of orange. The visions are often of the Knights Radiant. At the end of each episode, someoneI think one of the Heraldscomes to me and commands me to unite the highprinces of Alethkar. The room fell silent, Adolin looking disturbed, Renarin just sitting quietly. Today, I saw the Day of Recreance, Dalinar continued. The Radiants abandoned their Shards and walked away. The Plate and Bladesfaded somehow when they were abandoned. It seems such an odd detail to have seen. He looked at Adolin. If these visions are fantasies, then I am a great deal more clever than I once thought myself. Do you remember any specifics we could check on? Renarin asked. Names? Locations? Events that might be traced in history? This last one was of a place called Feverstone Keep, Dalinar said. Ive never heard of it, Adolin said. Feverstone Keep, Dalinar repeated. In my vision, there was some kind of war going on near there. The Radiants had been fighting on the front lines. They withdrew to this fortress, then abandoned their Shards there. Perhaps we could find something in history, Renarin said. Proof that either this keep existed or that the Radiants didnt do what you saw there. Then wed know, wouldnt we? If the dreams are delusions or truth? Dalinar found himself nodding. Proving them had never occurred to him, in part because he had assumed they were real at the start. Once hed started questioning, hed been more inclined to keep the nature of the visions hidden and silent. But if he knew that he was seeing real eventswell, that would at least rule out the possibility of madness. It wouldnt solve everything, but it would help a great deal. I dont know, Adolin said, more skeptical. Father, youre talking about times before the Hierocracy. Will we be able to find anything in the histories? There are histories from the time when the Radiants lived, Renarin said. Thats not as far back as the shadowdays or the Heraldic Epochs. We could ask Jasnah. Isnt this what she does? As a Veristitalian?