alcohol, then oil, as the old traditions dictated. He didnt turn toward Kal. Jams father was a soldier in Brightlord Amarams army, Kal said tentatively. Brightlord Amaram! The noble lighteyed general who watched over northern Alethkar. Kal wanted so much to see a real lighteyes, not stuffy old Wistiow. A soldier, like everyone talked about, like the stories were about. I know about Jams father, Lirin said. Ive had to operate on that lame leg of his three times now. A gift of his glorious time as a soldier. We need soldiers, father. Youd have our borders violated by the Thaylens? Thaylenah is an island kingdom, Lirin said calmly. They dont share a border with us. Well, then, they could attack from sea! Theyre mostly tradesmen and merchants. Every one Ive met has tried to swindle me, but thats hardly the same thing as invading. All the boys liked to tell stories about far-off places. It was hard to remember that Kals fatherthe only man of second nahn in the townhad traveled all the way to Kharbranth during his youth. Well, we fight with someone , Kal continued, moving to scrub the floor. Yes, his father said after a pause. King Gavilar always finds people for us to fight. That much is true. So we need soldiers, like I said. We need surgeons more. Lirin sighed audibly, turning away from his cabinet. Son, you nearly cry each time someone is brought to us; you grind your teeth anxiously during even simple procedures. What makes you think you could actually hurt someone? Ill get stronger. Thats foolishness. Whos put these ideas in your head? Why would you want to learn to hit other boys with a stick? For honor, Father, Kal said. Who tells stories about surgeons , for the Heraldss sake! The children of the men and women whose lives we save, Lirin said evenly, meeting Kals gaze. Thats who tell stories of surgeons. Kal blushed and shrank back, then finally returned to his scrubbing. There are two kinds of people in this world, son, his father said sternly. Those who save lives. And those who take lives. And what of those who protect and defend? The ones who save lives by taking lives? His father snorted. Thats like trying to stop a storm by blowing harder. Ridiculous. You cant protect by killing.