however, the more I came to realize how faulty my original assessment had been. Shallan tapped the page, thinking. Then she pulled out a thick volume, titled King Gavilar Kholin, a Biography , published by Gavilars widow, Navani, two years before. Shallan flipped through pages, scanning for a particular paragraph. My husband was an excellent kingan inspiring leader, an unparalleled duelist, and a genius of battlefield tactics. But he didnt have a single scholarly finger on his left hand. He never showed an interest in the accounting of highstorms, was bored by talk of science, and ignored fabrials unless they had an obvious use in battle. He was a man built after the classical masculine ideal. Why was he so interested in them? Shallan said out loud. Hmmm? Jasnah asked. King Gavilar, Shallan said. Your mother insists in her biography that he wasnt a scholar. True. But he was interested in the Parshendi, Shallan said. Even before he could have known about their Shardblades. According to Matains account, he wanted to know about their language, their society, and their music. Was that just embellishment, to make him sound more scholarly to future readers? No, Jasnah said, lowering her own book. The longer he remained in the Unclaimed Hills, the more fascinated by the Parshendi he became. So theres a discrepancy. Why would a man with no prior interest in scholarship suddenly become so obsessed? Yes, Jasnah said. I too have wondered about this. But sometimes, people change. When he returned, I was encouraged by his interest; we spent many evenings talking about his discoveries. It was one of the few times when I felt I really connected with my father. Shallan bit her lip. Jasnah, she finally asked. Why did you assign me to research this event? You lived through this; you already know everything Im discovering. I feel a fresh perspective may be of value. Jasnah put down her book, looking over at Shallan. I dont intend for you to find specific answers. Instead, I hope that you will notice details Ive missed. You are coming to see how my fathers personality changed during those months, and that means you are digging deeply. Believe it or not, few others have caught the discrepancy you just didthough many do note his later changes, once he returned to Kholinar. Even so, I feel a little odd studying it. Perhaps Im still influenced by my tutors idea that only the classics are a proper realm of study for young ladies. The classics do have their place, and I will send you to classical works on