floor and began to shake. Then he began raving in gibberish. Often, hed stand, blue eyes delusional and wild, swinging and flailing. Adolin had to restrain him lest he hurt himself or others. He sees things, Adolin said. Or he thinks he does. Adolins grandfather had suffered from delusions. When hed grown old, hed thought he was back at war. Was that what happened to Dalinar? Was he reliving youthful battles, days when hed earned his renown? Or was it that terrible night he saw over and over, the night when his brother had been murdered by the Assassin in White? And why did he so often mention the Knights Radiant soon after his episodes? It all made Adolin feel sick. Dalinar was the Blackthorn, a genius of the battlefield and a living legend. Together, he and his brother had reunited Alethkars warring highprinces after centuries of strife. He had defeated countless challengers in duels, had won dozens of battles. The entire kingdom looked up to him. And now this. What did you do, as a son, when the man you lovedthe greatest man alive started to lose his wits? Sadeas was speaking about a recent victory. Hed won another gemheart two days back, and the kingit appearedhadnt heard of it. Adolin tensed at the boasts. We should move back, Renarin said. We are of rank enough to be here, Adolin said. I dont like how you get when youre around Sadeas. We have to keep an eye on the man, Renarin, Adolin thought. He knows Father is weakening. Hell try to strike. Adolin forced himself to smile, however. He tried to be relaxed and confident for Renarin. Generally, that wasnt difficult. Hed happily spend his entire life dueling, lounging, and courting the occasional pretty girl. Of late, however, life didnt seem content to let him enjoy its simple pleasures. model of courage lately, Sadeas, the king was saying. Youve done very well in capturing gemhearts. You are to be commended. Thank you, Your Majesty. Though the competition grows unexciting, as some people dont seem interested in participating. I guess even the best weapons eventually grow dull. Dalinar, who might once have responded to the veiled slur, said nothing. Adolin gritted his teeth. It was flat-out unconscionable for Sadeas to be taking shots at his father in his present state. Perhaps Adolin should offer the pompous bastard a challenge. You didnt duel highprincesit just wasnt done, not unless you were ready to make a big storm of it. But maybe he was. Maybe