He smiled, closing his eyes. Ask the Almighty why men cry, little spren. Not me. His forehead dripped with sweat from the Eastern summer humidity, and it stung as it seeped into his wound. Hopefully, theyd have some weeks of spring again soon. Weather and seasons were unpredictable. You never knew how long they would go on, though typically each would last a few weeks. The wagon rolled on. After a time, he felt sunlight on his face. He opened his eyes. The sun shone in through the upper side of the cage. Two or three hours past noon, then. What of afternoon slop? Kaladin stood, pulling himself up with one hand on the steel bars. He couldnt make out Tvlakv driving the wagon up ahead, only flat-faced Bluth behind. The mercenary had on a dirty shirt that laced up the front and wore a wide-brimmed hat against the sun, his spear and cudgel riding on the wagon bench beside him. He didnt carry a swordnot even Tvlakv did that, not near Alethi land. The grass continued to part for the wagons, vanishing just in front, then creeping out after the wagons passed. The landscape here was dotted with strange shrubs that Kaladin didnt recognize. They had thick stalks and stems and spiny green needles. Whenever the wagons grew too close, the needles pulled into the stalks, leaving behind twisted, wormlike trunks with knotted branches. They dotted the hilly landscape, rising from the grass-covered rocks like diminutive sentries. The wagons just kept on going, well past noon. Why arent we stopping for slop? The lead wagon finally pulled to a stop. The other two lurched to a halt behind it, the red-carapaced chulls fidgeted, their antennae waving back and forth. The box-shaped animals had bulging, stony shells and thick, trunklike red legs. From what Kaladin had heard, their claws could snap a mans arm. But chulls were docile, particularly domesticated ones, and hed never known anyone in the army to get more than a halfhearted pinch from one. Bluth and Tag climbed down from their wagons and walked up to meet Tvlakv. The slavemaster stood on his wagons seat, shading his eyes against the white sunlight and holding a sheet of paper in his hand. An argument ensued. Tvlakv kept waving in the direction they had been going, then pointing at his sheet of paper. Lost, Tvlakv? Kaladin called. Perhaps you should pray to the Almighty for guidance. I hear he has a fondness for slavers. Keeps a special room in Damnation just for you. To Kaladins left, one of the slavesthe long-bearded man who had talked to him a few days backsidled away, not wanting to stand close to a person who was provoking the slaver.