The sketch depicted the king, sitting in his chair with a wise expression, the turretlike balcony walls behind him. The doorway into the balcony was to his right. Yes, it was a good likeness. Not her best work, but Shallan froze, her breath catching, her heart lurching in her chest. She had drawn something standing in the doorway behind the king. Two tall and willowy creatures with cloaks that split down the front and hung at the sides too stiffly, as if they were made of glass. Above the stiff, high collars, where the creatures heads should be, each had a large, floating symbol of twisted design full of impossible angles and geometries. Shallan sat, stunned. Why had she drawn those things? What had driven her to She snapped her head up. The hallway was empty. The creatures hadnt been part of the Memory shed taken. Her hands had simply drawn them of their accord. Shallan? Jasnah said. By reflex, Shallan dropped her charcoal and grabbed the sheet in her freehand, crumpling it. Im sorry, Brightness. I paid too much attention to the conversation. I let myself grow sloppy. Well, certainly we can at least see it, child, the king said, standing. Shallan tightened her grip. Please, no! She has an artists temperament at times, Your Majesty. Jasnah sighed. There will be no getting it out of her. Ill do you another, Your Majesty, Shallan said. Im so sorry. He rubbed his wispy beard. Yes, well, it was going to be a gift for my granddaughter. By the end of the day, Shallan promised. That would be wonderful. Youre certain you dont need me to pose? No, no, that wont be necessary, Your Majesty, Shallan said. Her pulse was still racing and she couldnt shake the image of those two distorted figures from her mind, so she took another Memory of the king. She could use that to create a more suitable picture. Well then, the king said. I suppose I should be going. I wish to visit one of the hospitals and the sick. You can send the drawing to my rooms, but take your time. Really, it is quite all right. Shallan curtsied, crushed paper still held to her breast. The king withdrew with his attendants, several parshmen entering to remove the table. Ive never known you to make a mistake in drawing, Jasnah said, sitting back down at the desk. At least not one so horrible that you destroyed the paper.