Good, Dalinar said. Tomorrow, youre going to name me Highprince of War. What? Sadeas betrayed me today, Dalinar said. He walked over to the broken desk, kicking at the pieces. The kings seal rolled out of its customary drawer. He picked it up. Nearly six thousand of my men were slaughtered. Adolin and I barely survived. What? Elhokar said, forcing himself up to a sitting position. Thats impossible! Far from it, Dalinar said, looking at his nephew. He saw a chance to pull out, letting the Parshendi destroy us. So he did it. A very Alethi thing to do. Ruthless, yet still allowing him to feign a sense of honor or morality. So you expect me to bring him to trial? No. Sadeas is no worse, and no better, than the others. Any of the highprinces would betray their fellows, if they saw a chance to do it without risking themselves. I intend to find a way to unite them in more than just name. Somehow. Tomorrow, once you name me Highprince of War, I will give my Plate to Renarin to fulfill a promise. Ive already given away my Blade to fulfill a different one. He walked closer, meeting Elhokars eyes again, then gripped the kings seal in his hand. As Highprince of War, I will enforce the Codes in all ten camps. Then Ill coordinate the war eff ort directly, determining which armies get to go on which plateau assaults. All gemhearts will be won by the Throne, then distributed as spoils by you. Well change this from a competition to a real war, and Ill use it to turn these ten armies of ours and their leadersinto real soldiers. Stormfather! Theyll kill us! The highprinces will revolt! I wont last a week! They wont be pleased, thats for certain, Dalinar said. And yes, this will involve a great deal of danger. Well have to be much more careful with our guard. If youre right, someone is already trying to kill you, so we should be doing that anyway. Elhokar stared at him, then looked at the broken furniture, rubbing his chest. Youre serious , arent you? Yes. He tossed the seal to Elhokar. Youre going to have your scribes draw up my appointment right after I leave. But I thought you said it was wrong to force men to follow the Codes, Elhokar said. You said that the best way to change people was to live right, and then let them be influenced by your example!