were in conflict had fascinated him. So much had changed since the visions began. Perhaps its not economic or religious in nature, Hatham said, trying to bring an end to the argument. Everyone knows that the Makabaki tribes have odd hatreds of one another. Perhaps, Au-nak said. Does it matter? Dalinar asked. The others turned to him. Its just another war. If they werent fighting one another, theyd find others to attack. Its what we do. Vengeance, honor, riches, religionthe reasons all just produce the same result. The others fell still, the silence quickly growing awkward. Which devotary do you credit, Brightlord Dalinar? Hatham asked, thoughtful, as if trying to remember something hed forgotten. The Order of Talenelat. Ah, Hatham said. Yes, it makes sense. They do hate arguing over religion. You must find this discussion terribly boring. A safe out from the conversation. Dalinar smiled, nodding in thanks to Hathams politeness. The Order of Talenelat? Au-nak said. I always considered that a devotary for the lesser people. This from a Natan, the Ardent said, stuffily. My family has always been devoutly Vorin. Yes, the ardent replied, conveniently so, since your family has used its Vorin ties to trade favorably in Alethkar. One wonders if you are equally devout when not standing on our soil. I dont have to be insulted like this, Au-nak snapped. He turned and strode way, causing Hatham to raise a hand. Nak-ali! Hatham called, rushing after him anxiously. Please, ignore him! Insufferable bore, the ardent said softly, taking a sip of his wineorange, of course, as he was a man of the clergy. Dalinar frowned at him. You are bold, ardent, he said sternly. Perhaps foolishly so. You insult a man Hatham wants to do business with. Actually, I belong to Brightlord Hatham, the ardent said. He asked me to insult his guestBrightlord Hatham wants Au-nak to think that he is shamed. Now, when Hatham agrees quickly to Au-naks demands, the foreigner will assume it was because of thisand wont delay the contract signing out of suspicion that it is proceeding too easily. Ah, of course. Dalinar looked after the fleeing pair. They go to such lengths.