Noble words, Dalinar said. But weve been away from Alethkar for six years now. Maintaining two far-flung centers of government is not healthy for the kingdom. Kings often go to war for extended periods, Uncle. Rarely do they do it for so long, Dalinar said, and rarely do they bring every Shardbearer and Highprince in the kingdom with them. Our resources are strained, and word from home is that the Reshi border encroachments grow increasingly bold. We are still fragmented as a people, slow to trust one another, and the nature of this extended warwithout a clear path to victory and with a focus on riches rather than capturing groundis not helping at all. Elhokar sniffed, wind blowing at them atop the peaked rock. You say theres no clear path to victory? Weve been winning! The Parshendi raids are coming less frequently, and arent striking as far westward as they once did. Weve killed thousands of them in battle. Not enough, Dalinar said. They still come in strength. The siege is straining us as much as, or more than, it is them. Werent you the one to suggest this tactic in the first place? I was a different man, then, flush with grief and anger. And you no longer feel those things? Elhokar was incredulous. Uncle, I cant believe Im hearing this! You arent seriously suggesting that I abandon the war, are you? Youd have me slink home, like a scolded axehound? I said they were difficult questions, Your Majesty, Dalinar said, keeping his anger in check. It was taxing. But they must be considered. Elhokar breathed out, annoyed. Its true, what Sadeas and the others whisper. Youre changing, Uncle. It has something to do with those episodes of yours, doesnt it? They are unimportant, Elhokar. Listen to me! What are we willing to give, in order to get vengeance? Anything. And if that means everything your father worked for? Do we honor his memory by undermining his vision for Alethkar, all to get revenge in his name? The king hesitated. You pursue the Parshendi, Dalinar said. That is laudable. But you cant let your passion for just retribution blind you to the needs of our kingdom. The Vengeance Pact has kept the highprinces channeled, but what will happen once we win? Will we shatter? I think we need to forge them together, to unite them. We fight this war as if we were ten different nations, fighting beside one another but not with one another. The king didnt respond immediately. The words, finally, seemed to be