two rocks at the side of the chasm. Well need to head back up soon. Kaladin opened his hand and rolled the emerald sphere between his fingers. How? Have you ever seen anything so beautiful? Moash asked, staring at the emerald. Its just a sphere, Kaladin said absently. A tool. I once held a goblet full of a hundred diamond broams and was told they were mine. Since I never got to spend them, they were as good as worthless. A hundred diamonds? Moash asked. Wherehow? Kaladin closed his mouth, cursing himself. I shouldnt keep mentioning things like that. Go on, he said, tucking the emerald broam back into the black pouch. We need to be quick. Moash sighed, but Rock thumped him on the back good-naturedly and they joined the rest of the bridgemen. Rock and Lopenusing Syls directionshad led them to a large mass of corpses in red-and-brown uniforms. He didnt know which highprinces men they were, but the bodies were pretty fresh. There were no Parshendi among them. Kaladin glanced to the side, where Shenthe parshman bridgeman worked. Quiet, obedient, stalwart. Teft still didnt trust him. A part of Kaladin was glad for that. Syl landed on the wall beside him, standing with her feet planted against the surface and looking up at the sky. Think, Kaladin told himself. How do we keep these spheres? There has to be a way. But each possibility seemed too much of a risk. If they were caught stealing, theyd probably be given a different work detail. Kaladin wasnt willing to risk that. Silent green lifespren began to fade into existence around him, bobbing around the moss and haspers. A few frillblooms opened up fronds of red and yellow beside his head. Kaladin had thought again and again about Dunnys death. Bridge Four was not safe. True, theyd lost a remarkably small number of men lately, but they were still dwindling. And each bridge run was a chance for total disaster. All it took was one time, with the Parshendi focusing on them. Lose three or four men, and theyd topple. The waves of arrows would redouble, cutting every one of them down. It was the same old problem, the one Kaladin had beaten his head against day after day. How did you protect bridgemen when everyone wanted them exposed and endangered? Hey Sig, Maps said, walking by carrying an armload of spears. Youre a Worldsinger, right? Maps had grown increasingly friendly in the last few weeks, and had proven good at getting the others talking. The balding man reminded Kaladin of an innkeeper, always quick to make his patrons feel at ease.