speckled with a handful of blond hairs, marking some foreign bloodpulled a long red ribbon from his pocket and attached it to his spear. He held the spear aloft, letting the ribbon flap in the wind. Its a call for runners to carry our wounded off the field, Dallet said to Cenn. Well have you out of here soon. You were brave, standing against those six. Fleeing seemed stupid, Cenn said, trying to take his mind off his throbbing leg. With so many wounded on the field, how can we think that the runnersll come for us? Squadleader Kaladin bribes them, Dallet said. They usually only carry off lighteyes, but there are more runners than there are wounded lighteyes. The squadleader puts most of his pay into the bribes. This squad is different, Cenn said, feeling light-headed. Told you. Not because of luck. Because of training. Thats part of it. Part of it is because we know if we get hurt, Kaladin will get us off the battlefield. He paused, looking over his shoulder. As Kaladin had predicted, Amarams line was surging back, recovering. The mounted enemy lighteyes from before was energetically laying about with his mace. A group of his honor guard moved to one side, engaging Kaladins subsquads. The lighteyes turned his horse. He wore an open-fronted helm that had sloping sides and a large set of plumes on the top. Cenn couldnt make out his eye color, but he knew it would be blue or green, maybe yellow or light grey. He was a brightlord, chosen at birth by the Heralds, marked for rule. He impassively regarded those who fought nearby. Then one of Kaladins knives took him in the right eye. The brightlord screamed, falling back off the saddle as Kaladin somehow slipped through the lines and leaped upon him, spear raised. Aye, its part training, Dallet said, shaking his head. But its mostly him. He fights like a storm, that one, and thinks twice as fast as other men. The way he moves sometimes He bound my leg, Cenn said, realizing he was beginning to speak nonsense due to the blood loss. Why point out the bound leg? It was a simple thing. Dallet just nodded. He knows a lot about wounds. He can read glyphs too. Hes a strange man, for a lowly darkeyed spearman, our squadleader is. He turned to Cenn. But you should save your strength, son. The squadleader wont be pleased if we lose you, not after what he paid to get you. Why? Cenn asked. The battlefield was growing quieter, as if many of the