Adolin studied him, eyes concerned. He will make a fine highprince, Dalinar thought. Hes been reared to it in a way that I never was. All right then, Adolin said. But theres something else I want to ask you. He pointed toward one of the clerks, a woman with auburn hair and only a few strands of black. She was lithe and long-necked, wearing a green dress, her hair arranged high on her head in a complex set of braids held together with four traditional steel hair-spikes. This is Danlan Morakotha, Adolin said softly to Dalinar. She came into camp yesterday to spend a few months with her father, Brightlord Morakotha. She has been calling on me recently, and I took the liberty of offering her a position among your clerks while she is here. Dalinar blinked. What about Malasha? Adolin sighed. Didnt work out. And this one? Dalinar asked, voice hushed, yet incredulous. How long did you say shes been in camp? Since yesterday? And youve already got her calling on you? Adolin shrugged. Well, I do have a reputation to maintain. Dalinar sighed, eyeing Navani, who stood close enough to hear. She pretendedfor proprietythat she wasnt listening in. You know, it is customary to eventually choose just one woman to court. Youre going to need a good wife, son. Perhaps very soon. When Im old and boring, perhaps, Adolin said, smiling at the young woman. She was pretty. But only in camp one day? Blood of my ancestors, Dalinar thought. Hed spent three years courting the woman whod eventually become his wife. Even if he couldnt remember her face, he did remember how persistently hed pursued her. Surely hed loved her. All emotion regarding her was gone, wiped from his mind by forces he should never have tempted. Unfortunately, he did remember how much hed desired Navani, years before meeting the woman who would become his wife. Stop that, he told himself. Moments ago, hed been on the brink of deciding to abdicate his seat as highprince. It was no time to let Navani distract him. Brightness Danlan Morakotha, he said to the young woman. You are welcome among my clerks. I understand that Ive received a communication? Indeed, Brightlord, the woman said, curtsying. She nodded to the line of five spanreeds sitting on his bookshelf, set upright in pen holders. The spanreeds looked like ordinary writing reeds, except that each had a small infused ruby affixed. The one on the far right pulsed slowly. Litima was there, and though she had seniority, she nodded for Danlan to