waterproof refuge. The slavemaster pulled on a cap and deep black cloak against the rain. He rarely came out until the storm had passed completely; he was very eager to get to their destination. Were they that close to the coast? That was one of the only places where theyd find cities in the Unclaimed Hills. Within minutes, the wagons were rolling again across the uneven ground. Kaladin settled back as the sky cleared, the highstorm a smudge of blackness on the western horizon. The sun brought welcome warmth, and the slaves basked in the light, streams of water dripping from their clothing and running out the back of the rocking wagon. Presently, a translucent ribbon of light zipped up to Kaladin. He was coming to take the windsprens presence for granted. She had gone out during the storm, but shed come back. As always. I saw others of your kind, Kaladin said idly. Others? she asked, taking the form of a young woman. She began to step around him in the air, spinning occasionally, dancing to some unheard beat. Windspren, Kaladin said. Chasing after the storm. Are you certain you dont want to go with them? She glanced westward, longingly. No, she finally said, continuing her dance. I like it here. Kaladin shrugged. Shed ceased playing as many pranks as she once had, and so hed stopped letting her presence annoy him. There are others near, she said. Others like you. Slaves? I dont know. People. Not the ones here. Other ones. Where? She turned a translucent white finger, pointing eastward. There. Many of them. Lots and lots. Kaladin stood up. He couldnt imagine that a spren had a good handle on how to measure distance and numbers. Yes Kaladin squinted, studying the horizon. Thats smoke. From chimneys? He caught a gust of it on the wind; if not for the rain, hed probably have smelled it sooner. Should he care? It didnt matter where he was a slave; hed still be a slave. Hed accepted this life. That was his way now. Dont care, dont bother. Still, he watched with curiosity as his wagon climbed the side of a hill and gave the slaves inside a good vantage of what was ahead. It wasnt a city. It was something grander, something larger. An enormous army encampment. Great Father of Storms Kaladin whispered. Ten masses of troops bivouacked in familiar Alethi patternscircular, by company rank, with camp followers on the outskirts, mercenaries in a ring just