here as bridgemen. Ha! Rock seemed to take it as a joke. Despite new armor, we would die soon. We make ourselves targets! Kaladin hesitated. Rock was right. The bridgemen would be used, day in and day out. Even if Kaladin slowed the death toll to two or three men a month once, he would have considered that impossible, but now it seemed within reach Bridge Four as it was currently composed would be gone within a year. I will talk with Sigzil about this thing, Rock said, rubbing his chin between the sides of his beard. We will think. There must be a way to escape this trap, a way to disappear. A false trail? A distraction? Perhaps we can convince Sadeas that we have died during bridge run. How would we do that? Dont know, Rock said. But we will think. He nodded to Kaladin and sauntered off toward Sigzil. The Azish man was practicing with the others. Kaladin had tried speaking to him about Hoid, but Sigziltypically closemouthedhadnt wanted to discuss it. Hey, Kaladin! Skar called. He was part of an advanced group that was going through Tefts very carefully supervised sparring. Come spar with us. Show these rock-brained fools how its really done. The others began calling for him as well. Kaladin waved them down, shaking his head. Teft trotted over, a heavy spear on one shoulder. Lad, he said quietly, I think it would be good for their morale if you showed them a thing or two yourself. Ive already given them instruction. With a spear you knocked the head off of. Going very slowly, with lots of talk. They need to see it, lad. See you. Weve been through this, Teft. Well, so we have. Kaladin smiled. Teft was careful not to look angry or belligerenthe looked as if he were having a normal conversation with Kaladin. Youve been a sergeant before, havent you? Never mind that. Come on, just show them a few simple routines. No, Teft, Kaladin said, more seriously. Teft eyed him. You going to refuse to fight on the battlefield, just like that Horneater? Its not like that. Well what is it like? Kaladin reached for an explanation. Ill fight when the time comes. But if I