The bows came up. Kaladin hadnt been at the deathpoint during a charge this bad since his first day on the crew. They always put new men into rotation at the deathpoint. That way, if they died, you didnt have to worry about training them. The Parshendi archers drew, aiming at five or six of the bridge crews. Bridge Four was obviously in their sights. The bows loosed. Tien! Kaladin screamed, nearly mad with fatigue and frustration. He bellowed the name alouduncertain whyas a wall of arrows zipped toward him. Kaladin felt a jolt of energy, a surge of sudden strength, unanticipated and unexplained. The arrows landed. Murk fell without a sound, four or five arrows striking him, spraying his blood across the stones. Leyten dropped as well, and with him both Adis and Corl. Shafts struck the ground at Kaladins feet, shattering, and a good half dozen hit the wood around Kaladins head and hands. Kaladin didnt know if hed been hit. He was too flush with energy and alarm. He continued running, screaming, holding the bridge on his shoulders. For some reason, a group of Parshendi archers ahead lowered their bows. He saw their marbled skin, strange reddish or orange helms, and simple brown clothing. They appeared confused. Whatever the reason, it gained Bridge Four a few precious moments. By the time the Parshendi raised their bows again, Kaladins team had reached the chasm. His men fell into line with the other bridge crewsthere were only fifteen bridges now. Five had fallen. They closed the gaps as they arrived. Kaladin screamed for the bridgemen to drop amid another spray of arrows. One sliced open the skin near his ribs, deflecting off the bone. He felt it hit, but didnt feel any pain. He scrambled around the side of the bridge, helping push. Kaladins team slammed the bridge into place as a wave of Alethi arrows distracted the enemy archers. A troop of cavalry charged across the bridges. The bridgemen were soon forgotten. Kaladin fell to his knees beside the bridge as the others of his crew stumbled away, bloodied and hurt, their part in the battle over. Kaladin held his side, feeling the blood there. Straight laceration, only about an inch long, not wide enough to be of danger. It was his fathers voice. Kaladin panted. He needed to get to safety. Arrows zipped over his head, fired by the Alethi archers. Some people take lives. Other people save lives.