Kaladins other side. The sky was overcast, making it darker than usual here at the bottom. The cold weather of late had drawn back to spring, though it was uncomfortably chilly. The men worked efficiently, quickly gathering spears, armor, boots, and spheres from the dead. Because of the short time given themand because of the exhausting bridge run earlierKaladin had decided to forgo spear practice for the day. Theyd load up on salvage instead and stow some of it down beneath, to be used for avoiding punishment next time. As theyd worked, theyd found a lighteyed officer. He had been quite wealthy. This single emerald broam was worth what a bridgeman slave would make in two hundred days. In the same pouch with it, theyd found a collection of chips and marks that totaled slightly more than another emerald broam. Wealth. A fortune. Simply pocket change to a lighteyes. With this we could feed those wounded bridgemen for months, Moash said. We could buy all the medical supplies we could want. Stormfather! We could probably bribe the camps perimeter guards to let us sneak away. This thing will not happen, Rock said. Is impossible to get spheres out of the chasms. We could swallow them, Moash said. You would choke. Spheres are too big, eh? Ill bet I could do it, Moash said. His eyes glittered, reflecting the verdant Stormlight. Thats more money than Ive ever seen. Its worth the risk. Swallowing wont work, Kaladin said. You think those guards who watch us in the latrines are there to keep us from fleeing? Ill bet some sodden parshman has to go through our droppings, and Ive seen them keep record of who visits and how often. We arent the first to think of swallowing spheres. Moash hesitated, then sighed, crestfallen. Youre probably right. Storm you, but you are. But we cant just give it to them, can we? Yes, we can, Kaladin said, closing his fist around the sphere. The glow was bright enough to make his hand shine. Wed never be able to spend it. A bridgeman with a full broam? It would give us away. But Moash began. We give it to them, Moash. Then he held up the pouch containing the other spheres. But we find a way to keep these. Rock nodded. Yes. If we give up this expensive sphere, they will think us honest, eh? It will disguise the theft, and they will even give us small reward. But how can we do this thing, keeping the pouch? Im working on that, Kaladin said. Work fast, then, Moash said, glancing at Kaladins torch, rammed between