infused them with Stormlight, Lashing them to a point behind the king. The furniture tumbled as if the room had been turned on its side, couches, chairs, and tables dropping toward the surprised king. Gavilar made the mistake of chopping at them with his Shardblade. The weapon easily sheared through a large couch, but the pieces still crashed into him, making him stumble. A footstool hit him next, throwing him to the ground. Gavilar rolled out of the way of the furniture and charged forward, Plate leaking streams of Light from the cracked sections. Szeth gathered himself, then leaped into the air, Lashing himself backward and to the right as the king arrived. He zipped out of the way of the kings blow, then Lashed himself forward with two Basic Lashings in a row. Stormlight flashed out of him, clothing freezing, as he was pulled toward the king at twice the speed of a normal fall. The kings posture indicated surprise as Szeth lurched in midair, then spun toward him, swinging. He slammed his Blade into the kings helm, then immediately Lashed himself to the ceiling and fell upward, slamming into the stone roof above. Hed Lashed himself in too many directions too quickly, and his body had lost track, making it difficult to land gracefully. He stumbled back to his feet. Below, the king stepped back, trying to get into position to swing up at Szeth. The mans helm was cracked, leaking Stormlight, and he stood protectively, defending the side with the broken plate. The king used a one- handed swing, reaching for the ceiling. Szeth immediately Lashed himself downward, judging that the kings attack would leave him unable to get his sword back in time. Szeth underestimated his opponent. The king stepped into Szeths attack, trusting his helm to absorb the blow. Just as Szeth hit the helm a second time shattering itGavilar punched with his off hand, slamming his gauntleted fist into Szeths face. Blinding light flashed in Szeths eyes, a counterpoint to the sudden agony that crashed across his face. Everything blurred, his vision fading. Pain. So much pain ! He screamed, Stormlight leaving him in a rush, and he slammed back into something hard. The balcony doors. More pain broke out across his shoulders, as if someone had stabbed him with a hundred daggers, and he hit the ground and rolled to a stop, muscles trembling. The blow would have killed an ordinary man. No time for pain. No time for pain. No time for pain! He blinked, shaking his head, the world blurry and dark. Was he blind? No.