Kaladin glanced at Teft, but of course the older bridgeman hadnt heard. Gather the men, Kaladin said. Were going down to our chasm duty. And what about what has happened? Teft said. Kaladin, we cant go on that many bridge runs. Well be cut to pieces. Im doing something about it today. Gather the men. Syl, I need something from you. What? She landed in front of him and formed into a young woman. Go find us a place where some Parshendi corpses have fallen. I thought you were going to do spear practice today. Thats what the men will be doing, Kaladin said. Ill get them organized first. After that, I have a different task. Kaladin clapped a quick signal, and the bridgemen made a decent arrowhead formation. They carried the spears theyd stashed in the chasm, secured in a large sack filled with stones and stuck in a crevice. He clapped his hands again, and they rearranged into a double-line wall formation. He clapped again, and they formed into a ring with one man standing behind every two as a quick step- in reserve. The walls of the chasm dripped with water, and the bridgemen splashed through puddles. They were good. Better than they had any right to be, better for their level of trainingthan any team hed worked with. But Teft was right. They still wouldnt last long in a fight. A few more weeks and hed have them practiced enough with thrusts and shielding one another that theyd begin to be dangerous. Until then, they were just bridgemen who could move in fancy patterns. They needed more time. Kaladin had to buy them some. Teft, Kaladin said. Take over. The older bridgeman gave one of those cross-armed salutes. Syl, Kaladin said to the spren, lets go see these bodies. Theyre close. Come on. She zipped off down the chasm, a glowing ribbon. Kaladin started after her. Sir, Teft called. Kaladin hesitated. When had Teft started calling him sir? Odd, how right that felt. Yes? You want an escort? Teft stood at the head of the gathered bridgemen, who were looking more and more like soldiers, with their leather vests and