stanch the bleeding. What was that? Oh, nothing. He scowled. Get back to work! That lad needs you. Kaladin turned back to his sewing. You still carrying a full pouch of spheres with you, like I told you? Teft asked. I cant very well leave them behind in the barracks. But well need to spend them soon. Youll do nothing of the sort, Teft said. Those spheres are luck, you hear me? Keep them with you and always keep them infused. Kaladin sighed. I think theres something wrong with this batch. They wont hold their Stormlight. They fall dun after just a few days, every time. Perhaps its something to do with the Shattered Plains. It has happened to the other bridgemen too. Odd, that, Teft said, rubbing his chin. This was a bad approach. Three bridges down. Lots of bridgemen dead. Interesting how we didnt lose anyone. We lost Dunny. But not on the approach. You always run point, and the arrows always seem to miss us. Odd, eh? Kaladin looked up again, frowning. What are you saying, Teft? Nothing. Get back to that sewing! How many times do I have to tell you? Kaladin raised an eyebrow, but turned back to his work. Teft had been acting very strange lately. Was it the stress? A lot of people were superstitious about spheres and Stormlight. Rock and his team brought three more wounded, then said that was all theyd found. Bridgemen who fell often ended up like Dunny, getting trampled. Well, at least Bridge Four wouldnt have to make a return trip to the plateau. The three had bad arrow wounds, and so Kaladin left the man with the gash on his arm to them, instructing Skar to keep pressure on the unfinished sewing job. Teft heated a dagger for cauterization; these newcomers had obviously lost a lot of blood. One probably wouldnt make it. So much of the world is at war, he thought as he worked. The dream had highlighted what others already spoke of. Kaladin hadnt known, growing up in remote Hearthstone, how fortunate his town had been to avoid battle. The entire world warred, and he struggled to save a few impoverished bridgemen. What good did it do? And yet he continued searing flesh, sewing, saving lives as his father had taught him. He began to understand the sense of futility hed seen in his fathers eyes on those occasional darkened nights when Lirin had turned to his wine in solitude. Youre trying to make up for failing Dunny, Kaladin thought. Helping these