using tiny hands to shape it. That cocoon would be watertight from the inside, sealed by dried mucus, but rainwater outside would dissolve the sack. Kal smiled, then lifted the flask and drank. This was cool, clean water, which had already had the crem settled out. Cremthe sludgy brown material that fell with rainwatercould make a man sick. Everybody knew that, not just surgeons. You always let water sit for a day, then poured off the fresh water on top and used the crem to make pottery. The lurg eventually finished its cocoon. Tien immediately reached for the flask. Kal held the flask high. Itll be tired, Tien. It wont jump around anymore. Oh. Kal lowered the flask, patting his brothers shoulder. I put it on that stone so you could carry it around. You can get it out later. He smiled. Or you could drop it in Fathers bathwater through the window. Tien grinned at that prospect. Kal ruffled the boys dark hair. Go see if you can find another cocoon. If we catch two, youll have one to play with and one to slip into the bathwater. Tien carefully set the rock aside, then scampered up over the boulders. The hillside here had broken during a highstorm several months back. Shattered, as if it had been hit by the fist of some enormous creature. People said that it could have been a home that got destroyed. They burned prayers of thanks to the Almighty while at the same time whispering of dangerous things that moved in the darkness at full storm. Were the Voidbringers behind the destruction, or had it been the shades of the Lost Radiants? Laral was looking toward the mansion again. She smoothed her dress nervouslylately she took far more care, not getting her clothes dirty as she once had. You still thinking about war? Kal asked. Um. Yes. I am. Make sense, he said. An army had come through recruiting just a few weeks back and had picked up a few of the older boys, though only after Citylord Wistiow had given permission. What do you think broke the rocks here, during the highstorm? I couldnt say. Kal looked eastward. What sent the storms? His father said no ship had ever sailed for the Origin of Storms and returned safely. Few ships ever even left the coast. Being caught on the open seas during a storm meant death, so the stories said. He took another sip from his flask, then capped it, saving the rest in case