them into battle, I assume. That, and I killed a lot of Parshendi today. I found myself regretting their deaths. They showed me more honor than most members of my own army have. I didnt like the feeling, and I want some time to think about it. The bodyguards I train for you, well go out onto the field, but our primary purpose will be protecting you, not killing Parshendi. Dalinar looked bemused. All right. Though you shouldnt have to worry. I dont plan to be on the front lines much in the future. My role is changing. Regardless, we have a deal. Kaladin held out a hand. This is contingent on my men agreeing. I thought you said that theyd do what you did. Probably, Kaladin said. I command them, but I dont own them. Dalinar reached out, taking his hand, shaking it by the light of the rising sapphire moon. Then he took the bundle out from underneath his arm. Here. What is this? Kaladin said, taking the bundle. My cloak. The one I wore to battle today, washed and patched. Kaladin unfurled it. It was of a deep blue, with the glyphpair of khokh and linil sewn into the back in white embroidery. Each man who wears my colors, Dalinar said, is of my family, in a way. The cloak is a simple gift, but it is one of the few things I can offer that has any meaning. Accept it with my gratitude, Kaladin Stormblessed. Kaladin slowly refolded the cloak. Where did you hear that name? Your men, Dalinar said. They think very highly of you. And that makes me think very highly of you. I need men like you, like all of you. He narrowed his eyes, looking thoughtful. The whole kingdom needs you. Perhaps all of Roshar. The True Desolation comes. What was that last part? Nothing, Dalinar said. Please, go get some rest, Captain. I hope to hear good news from you soon. Kaladin nodded and withdrew, passing the two men who acted as Dalinars guard for the night. The hike back to his new barracks was a short one. Dalinar had given him one building for each of the bridge crews. Over a thousand men. What was he going to do with so many? Hed never commanded a group larger than twenty-five before. Bridge Fours barrack was empty. Kaladin hesitated outside the doorway, looking in. The barrack was furnished with a bunk and locking chest for each man. It seemed a palace. He smelled smoke. Frowning, he rounded the barrack to find the men sitting around a firepit in the back, relaxing on stumps or stones, waiting as Rock