hopped off the stone, searching for insects. Tien laughed, watching it bounce from rock to rock, sticking to the stones. It left behind patches of mucus wherever it landed. Kal leaned back against the stone, watching his brother, remembering days not so long agowhen chasing lurgs had been more exciting. So, Laral said, folding her arms. What are you going to do? If your father tries to send you to Kharbranth? I dont know, Kal said. The surgeons wont take anyone before their sixteenth Weeping, so Ive got time to think. The best surgeons and healers trained in Kharbranth. Everyone knew that. The city was said to have more hospitals than taverns. It sounds like your father is forcing you to do what he wants, not what you want, Laral said. Thats the way everyone does it, Kal said, scratching his head. The other boys dont mind becoming farmers because their fathers were farmers, and Ral just became the new town carpenter. He didnt mind that it was what his father did. Why should I mind being a surgeon? I just Laral looked angry. Kal, if you go to war and find a Shardblade, then youd be a lighteyes. I meanOh, this is useless. She settled back, folding her arms even more tightly. Kal scratched his head. She really was acting oddly. I wouldnt mind going to war, winning honor and all that. Mostly, Id like to travel. See what other lands are like. Hed heard tales of exotic animals, like enormous crustaceans or eels that sang. Of Rall Elorim, City of Shadows, or Kurth, City of Lightning. Hed spent a lot of time studying these last few years. Kals mother said he should be allowed to have a childhood, rather than focusing so much on his future. Lirin argued that the tests to be admitted by the Kharbranthian surgeons were very rigorous. If Kal wanted a chance with them, hed have to begin learning early. And yet, to become a soldierThe other boys dreamed of joining the army, of fighting with King Gavilar. There was talk of going to war with Jah Keved, once and for all. What would it be like, to finally see some of the heroes from stories? To fight with Highprince Sadeas, or Dalinar the Blackthorn? Eventually, the lurg realized that it had been tricked. It settled down on a rock to spin its cocoon again. Kal grabbed a small, weathered stone off the ground, then laid a hand on Tiens shoulder, stopping the boy from prodding the tired amphibian. Kal moved forward and nudged the lurg with two fingers, making it hop off the boulder and onto his stone. He handed this to Tien, who watched with wide eyes as the lurg spun its cocoon, spitting out the wet silk and