Considering that, what was Dalinar to think of Hathams politeness earlier, when he had given Dalinar a reason to explain his apparent distaste for conflict? Was Hatham preparing Dalinar for some covert manipulation? The ardent cleared his throat. I would appreciate it if you did not repeat to anyone what I just told you, Brightlord. Dalinar noticed Adolin returning to the kings island, accompanied by six of Dalinars officers, in uniform and wearing their swords. Why did you tell me in the first place, then? Dalinar asked, turning his attention back to the white-robed man. Just as Hatham wishes his partner in negotiations to know of his goodwill, I wish you to know of our goodwill toward you, Brightlord. Dalinar frowned. Hed never had much to do with the ardentshis devotary was simple and straightforward. Dalinar got his fill of politics with the court; he had little desire to find more in religion. Why? What should it matter if I have goodwill toward you? The ardent smiled. We will speak with you again. He bowed low and withdrew. Dalinar was about to demand more, but Adolin arrived, looking after Highprince Hatham. What was that all about? Dalinar just shook his head. Ardents werent supposed to engage in politics, whatever their devotary. Theyd been officially forbidden to do so since the Hierocracy. But, as with most things in life, the ideal and the reality were two separate things. The lighteyes couldnt help but use the ardents in their schemes, and somore and morethe devotaries found themselves a part of the court. Father? Adolin asked. The men are in place. Good, Dalinar said. He set his jaw and then crossed the small island. He would see this fiasco finished with, once and for all. He passed the firepit, a wave of dense heat making the left side of his face prickle with sweat while the right side was still chilled by the autumn cold. Adolin hurried up to walk by him, hand on his side sword. Father? What are we doing? Being provocative, Dalinar said, striding right up to where Elhokar and Sadeas were chatting. Their crowd of sycophants reluctantly parted for Dalinar. and I think that The king cut off, glancing at Dalinar. Yes, Uncle? Sadeas, Dalinar said. What is the status of your investigation of the cut girth strap? Sadeas blinked. He held a cup of violet wine in his right hand, his long, red velvet robe open at the front to expose a ruffled white shirt. Dalinar, are you Your investigation, Sadeas, Dalinar said firmly.