Good enough, Kaladin thought. So long as they werent attacking him. Dalinar Kholin was moving, sitting up. Kaladin knelt down, commanding most of his Stormlight into the stony ground, retaining just enough to keep him going, but not enough to make him glow. Then he hurried over to the armored horse at the side of the ring of Parshendi. The Parshendi shied away from him, looking terrified. He took the reins and quickly returned to the highprince. Dalinar shook his head, trying to clear his mind. His vision still swam, but his thoughts were reforming. What had happened? Hed been hit on the head, and and now the Shardbearer was down. Down? What had caused the Shardbearer to fall? Had the creature really talked to him? No, he must have imagined that. That, and the young spearman glowing. He wasnt doing so now. Holding Gallants reins, the young man waved at Dalinar urgently. Dalinar forced himself to his feet. Around them, the Parshendi were muttering something unintelligible. That Shardplate, Dalinar thought, looking at the kneeling Parshendi. A Shardblade I could fulfill my promise to Renarin. I could The Shardbearer groaned, holding his leg with a gauntleted hand. Dalinar itched to finish the kill. He took a step forward, dragging his unresponsive foot. Around them, the Parshendi troops watched silently. Why didnt they attack? The tall spearman ran up to Dalinar, pulling Gallants reins. On your horse, lighteyes. We should finish him. We could On your horse! the youth commanded, tossing the reins at him as the Parshendi troops turned to engage a contingent of approaching Alethi soldiers. Youre supposed to be an honorable one, the spearman snarled. Dalinar had rarely been spoken to in such a way, particularly by a darkeyed man. Well, your men wont leave without you , and my men wont leave without them . So you will get on your horse and we will escape this death-trap. Do you understand? Dalinar met the young mans eyes. Then nodded. Of course. He was right; they had to leave the enemy Shardbearer. How would they get the armor out, anyway? Tow the corpse all the way? Retreat! Dalinar bellowed to his soldiers, pulling himself into Gallants saddle. He barely made it, his armor had so little Stormlight left.