Arent you pleased at all? Navani asked, lingering beside the doorway near him, one hand on the frame. Pleased? You arent going mad. And we dont know if Im being manipulated or not, he said. In a way, we have more questions now than we had before. The visions are a blessing, Navani said, laying her freehand on his arm. I feel it, Dalinar. Dont you see how wonderful this is? Dalinar met her eyes, light violet, beautiful. She was so thoughtful, so clever. How he wished he could trust her completely. She has shown me nothing but honor, he thought. Never speaking a word to anyone else of my intention to abdicate. She hasnt so much as tried to use my visions against me. He felt ashamed that hed once worried that she might. She was a wonderful woman, Navani Kholin. A wonderful, amazing, dangerous woman. I see more worries, he said. And more danger. But Dalinar, youre having experiences scholars, historians, and folklorists could only dream about! I envy you, although you claim to have seen no fabrials of note. The ancients didnt have fabrials, Navani. Im certain of it. And that changes everything we thought we understood about them. I suppose. Stonefalls, Dalinar, she said, sighing. Does nothing bring you to passion any longer? Dalinar took a deep breath. Too many things, Navani. My insides feel like a mass of eels, emotions squirming over one another. The truth of these visions is unsettling. Its exciting, she corrected. Did you mean what you said earlier? About trusting me? I said that? You said you didnt trust your clerks, and you asked me to record the visions. Theres an implication in that. Her hand was still on his arm. She reached out with her safehand and closed the door to the hallway. He almost stopped her, but he hesitated. Why? The door clicked closed. They were alone. And she was so beautiful. Those clever, excitable eyes, alight with passion. Navani, Dalinar said, forcing down his desire. Youre doing it again. Why did he let her? Yes, I am, she said. Im a stubborn woman, Dalinar. There didnt seem