rope. I could get some for you easy, with money. Perhaps, Kaladin said. But youd still have to hide it in the litter, then hang it down into the chasm without anyone seeing. And to leave it dangling there for several days? It would be noticed. The others nodded. Rock seemed very uncomfortable. Sighing, Kaladin took out the bow and several arrows. Well just have to chance this. Teft, why dont you Oh, Kalikalins ghost, Rock muttered. Here, give me bow. He shoved his way through the bridgemen, taking the bow from Kaladin. Kaladin hid a smile. Rock glanced upward, judging the distance in the waning light. He strung the bowstring, then held out a hand. Kaladin handed him an arrow. He leveled the bow back down the chasm and launched. The arrow flew swiftly, clattering against chasm walls. Rock nodded to himself, then pointed at Kaladins pouch. We take only five spheres, Rock said. Any more would be too heavy. Is crazy to try with even five. Airsick lowlanders. Kaladin smiled, then counted out five sapphire markstogether about two and a half months worth of pay for a bridgemanand placed them in a spare pouch. He handed that to Rock, who pulled out a knife and dug a notch into an arrows wood next to the arrowhead. Skar folded his arms and leaned against the mossy wall. This is stealing, you know. Yes, Kaladin said, watching Rock. And I dont feel the least bit bad about it. Do you? Not at all, Skar said, grinning. I figure once someone is trying to get you killed, all expectations of your loyalty are tossed to the storm. But if someone were to go to Gaz The other bridgemen suddenly grew nervous, and more than a few eyes darted toward Shen, though Kaladin could see that Skar wasnt thinking of the Parshman. If one of the bridgemen were to betray the rest of them, he might earn himself a reward. Maybe we should post a watch, Drehy said. You know, make sure nobody sneaks off to talk to Gaz. Well do no such thing, Kaladin said. What are we going to do? Lock ourselves in the barrack, so suspicious of each other that we never get anything done? He shook his head. No. This is just one more danger. Its a real one, but we cant waste energy spying on each other. So we keep on going. Skar didnt look convinced.