lines of archers. That world was the nightmare. Kaladin! The feminine voice was soft, like a whisper, yet still urgent. Theyre going to leave you. Get up! Youll die! I cantI cant go back. Let me go. Something snapped against his face, a slight slap of energy with a sting to it. He cringed. It was nothing compared with his other pains, but somehow it was far more demanding. He raised a hand, swatting. The motion was enough to drive away the last vestiges of stupor. He tried to open his eyes. One refused, blood from a cut on his cheek having run down and crusted around the eyelid. The sun had moved. Hours had passed. He groanedsitting up, rubbing the dried blood from his eye. The ground near him was littered with bodies. The air smelled of blood and worse. A pair of sorry bridgemen were shaking each man in turn, checking for life, then pulling the vests and sandals off their bodies, shooing away the cremlings feeding on the bodies. The men would never have checked on Kaladin. He didnt have anything for them to take. Theyd have left him with the corpses, stranded on the plateau. Kaladins windspren flitted through the air above him, moving anxiously. He rubbed his jaw where shed struck him. Large spren like her could move small objects and give little pinches of energy. That made them all the more annoying. This time, it had probably saved Kaladins life. He groaned at all the places where he hurt. Do you have a name, spirit? he asked, forcing himself to his battered feet. On the plateau the army had crossed to, soldiers were picking through the corpses of the dead Parshendi, looking for something. Harvesting equipment, maybe? It appeared that Sadeass force had won. At least, there didnt seem to be any Parshendi still alive. Theyd either been killed or had fled. The plateau theyd fought on seemed exactly like the others theyd crossed. The only thing that was different here was that there was a large lump of something in the center of the plateau. It looked like an enormous rockbud, perhaps some kind of chrysalis or shell, a good twenty feet tall. One side had been hacked open, exposing slimy innards. He hadnt noticed it on the initial charge; the archers had demanded all of his attention. A name, the windspren said, her voice distant. Yes. I do have a name. She seemed surprised as she looked at Kaladin. Why do I have a name? How should I know? Kaladin said, forcing himself to move. His feet blazed with pain. He could barely limp.