upright. How was he going to organize a resistance? He slipped on a steep portion of the trail, and Taffa set down the lamp, grabbing his arm, concerned. The landscape was rough with boulders and rockbuds, their vines and leaves extended in the cool, wet night. Those rustled in the wind. Dalinar righted himself, then nodded to the woman, gesturing for her to continue. A faint scraping sounded in the night; Dalinar turned, tense. Heb? the woman asked, sounding afraid. Hold up the light. She raised the lamp, illuminating the hillside in flickering yellow. A good dozen midnight patches, skins too smooth, were creeping over rockbuds and boulders. Even their teeth and claws were black. Seeli whimpered, pulling close to her mother. Run, Dalinar said softly, raising his poker. Heb, theyre Run! he bellowed. Theyre in front of us too! He spun, picking out the dark patches ahead. He cursed, looking around. There, he said, pointing to a nearby rock formation. It was tall and flat. He shoved Taffa forward, and she towed Seeli, their single-piece, blue dresses rippling in the wind. They ran more quickly than he could in his state, and Taffa reached the rock wall first. She looked up, as if to climb to the top. It was too steep for that; Dalinar just wanted something solid to put at his back. He stepped onto a flat, open section of rock before the formation and raised his weapon. Black beasts crawled carefully over the stones. Could he distract them, somehow, and let the other two flee? He felt so dizzy. What Id give for my Shardplate Seeli whimpered. Her mother tried to comfort her, but the womans voice was unnerved. She knew. Knew those bundles of blackness, like living night, would rip them and tear them. What was that word shed used? Desolation. The book spoke of them. The Desolations had happened during the near-mythical shadowdays, before real history began. Before mankind had defeated the Voidbringers and taken the war to heaven. The Voidbringers. Was that what these things were? Myths. Myths come to life to kill him. Several of the creatures lunged forward, and he felt the Thrill surge within him again, strengthening him as he swung. They jumped back, cautious, testing for weakness. Others sniffed the air, pacing. They wanted to get at the woman