try to kill us. She wins regardless. Keleks breath, Teft cursed. Darker than a Horneaters stomach, our situation is. Shell see us dead, Kaladin. I know. He glanced over his shoulder at the parshman. He was a little taller than most, his face a little wider, but they all looked about the same to Kaladin. The other members of Bridge Four had lined up by the time Kaladin returned. They watched the approaching parshman with surprise and disbelief. Kaladin stopped before them, Teft at his side, the parshman behind. It made him itch, to have one of them behind him. He casually stepped to the side. The parshman just stood there, eyes downward, shoulders slumped. Kaladin glanced at the others. They had guessed, and they were growing hostile. Stormfather, Kaladin thought. There is something lower in this world than a bridgeman. A parshman bridgeman. Parshmen might cost more than most slaves, but so did a chull. In fact, the comparison was a good one, because parshmen were worked like animals. Seeing the reaction of the others made Kaladin pity the creature. And that made him mad at himself. Did he always have to react this way? This parshman was dangerous, a distraction for the other men, a factor they couldnt depend on. A liability. Turn a liability into an advantage whenever you can.. Those words had been spoken by a man who cared only for his own skin. Storm it, Kaladin thought. Im a fool. A downright, sodden idiot. This isnt the same. Not at all. Parshman, he asked. Do you have a name? The man shook his head. Parshmen rarely spoke. They could, but you had to prod them into it. Well, well have to call you something, Kaladin said. How about Shen? The man shrugged. All right then, Kaladin said to the others. This is Shen. Hes one of us now. A parshman? Lopen asked, lounging beside the barrack. I dont like him, gancho. Look how he stares at me. Hell kill us while we sleep, Moash added. No, this is good , Skar said. We can just have him run at the front. Hell take an arrow for one of us. Syl alighted on Kaladins shoulder, looking down at the parshman. Her eyes were sorrowful. If you were to overthrow the lighteyes and place yourselves in power, abuses