Some bridge runs werent as bad. If the Alethi arrived before the Parshendi, no bridgemen died. And if they arrived too late, sometimes another highprince was already there. Sadeas wouldnt help in that case; hed take his army and go back to camp. Even in a bad run, the Parshendi would often choose to focus their arrows on certain crews, trying to bring them down one at a time. Sometimes, dozens of bridgemen would fall, but not a single one from Bridge Four. That was rare. For some reason, Bridge Four always seemed to get targeted. Kaladin didnt bother to learn the names of his companions. None of the bridgemen did. What was the point? Learn a mans name, and one of you would be dead before the week was out. Odds were, youd both be dead. Maybe he should learn names. Then hed have someone to talk to in Damnation. They could reminisce about how terrible Bridge Four had been, and agree that eternal fires were much more pleasant. He smirked dully, still staring at the rock in front of him. Gaz would come for them soon, send them to work. Scrubbing latrines, cleaning streets, mucking stables, gathering rocks. Something to keep their minds off their fate. He still didnt know why they fought on those blustering plateaus. Something about those large chrysalises. They had gemstones at their hearts, apparently. But what did that have to do with the Vengeance Pact? Another bridgemana youthful Veden with reddish-blond hairlay nearby, staring up into the spitting sky. Rainwater pooled in the corners of his brown eyes, then ran down his face. He didnt blink. They couldnt run. The warcamp might as well have been a prison. The bridgemen could go to the merchants and spend their meager earnings on cheap wine or whores, but they couldnt leave the warcamp. The perimeter was secure. Partially, this was to keep out soldiers from the other campsthere was always rivalry where armies met. But mostly it was so bridgemen and slaves could not flee. Why? Why did this all have to be so horrible? None of it made sense . Why not let a few bridgemen run out in front of the bridges with shields to block arrows? Hed asked, and had been told that would slow them down too much. Hed asked again, and had been told hed be strung up if he didnt shut his mouth. The lighteyes acted as if this entire mess were some kind of grand game. If it was, the rules were hidden from bridgemen, just as pieces on a board had no inkling what the players strategy might be. Kaladin? Syl asked, floating down and landing on his leg, holding the girlish form with the long dress flowing into mist. Kaladin? You havent spoken in days.