its straps. That anyone would follow those vows, particularly a bunch of lighteyes? They werent just lighteyes. They were Radiants. They were people, Kaladin said. Men in power always pretend things like virtue, or divine guidance, some kind of mandate to protect the rest of us. If we believe that the Almighty put them where they are, its easier for us to swallow what they do to us. Teft turned a vest over. It was beginning to tear beneath the left shoulder pad. I never used to believe. And then then I saw you infusing Light, and I began to wonder. Stories and legends, Teft, Kaladin said. We want to believe that there were better men once. That makes us think it could be that way again. But people dont change. They are corrupt now. They were corrupt then. Maybe, Teft said. My parents believed in all of it. The Immortal Words, the Ideals, the Knights Radiant, the Almighty. Even old Vorinism. In fact, especially old Vorinism. That led to the Hierocracy. The devotaries and the ardents shouldnt hold land or property. Its too dangerous. Teft snorted. Why? You think theyd be worse at being in charge than the lighteyes? Well, youve probably got a point there. Kaladin frowned. Hed spent so long assuming the Almighty had abandoned him, or even cursed him, that it was difficult to accept that maybeas Syl had saidhed instead been blessed. Yes, hed been preserved, and he supposed he should be grateful for that. But what could be worse than being granted great power, yet still being too weak to save those he loved? Further speculation was interrupted as Lopen stood up straight in the doorway, gesturing covertly to Kaladin and Teft. Fortunately, there wasnt anything to hide anymore. In fact, there hadnt ever been anything to hide, other than Kaladin sitting on the floor and staring at the spheres like an idiot. He set aside the vest and walked to the entrance. Hashals palanquin was being carried directly toward Kaladins barrack, her tall, oft-silent husband walking alongside. The sash at his neck was violet, as was the embroidery on the cuffs of his short, vestlike jacket. Gaz still hadnt reappeared. It had been a week now, and no sign of him. Hashal and her husband along with their lighteyed attendantsdid what hed once done, and they rebuffed any questions about the bridge sergeant. Storm it, Teft said, stepping up beside Kaladin. Those two make my skin itch, same way it does when I know someones got a knife and is standing