Dalinar squirted the warm water into his mouth and across his face. It had the metallic taste of stormwater. Adolin lowered his waterskin, swishing the water in his mouth. He met Dalinars eyes, his face haunted and grim. He knew. Just as Dalinar did. Just as the men likely did. There would be no surviving this battle. The Parshendi left no survivors. Dalinar braced himself, waiting for further accusations from Adolin. The boy had been right all along. And whatever the visions were, they had misled Dalinar in at least one respect. Trusting Sadeas had brought them to doom. Men died just a short distance away, screaming and cursing. Dalinar longed to fight, but he needed to rest himself. Losing a Shardbearer because of fatigue would not serve his men. Well? Dalinar demanded of Adolin. Say it. I have led us to destruction. I This is my fault, Dalinar said. I should never have risked our house for those foolish dreams. No, Adolin said. He sounded surprised at himself for saying it. No, Father. Its not your fault. Dalinar stared at his son. That was not what hed expected to hear. What would you have done differently? Adolin asked. Would you stop trying to make something better of Alethkar? Would you become like Sadeas and the others? No. I wouldnt have you become that man, Father, regardless of what it would gain us. I wish to the Heralds that we hadnt let Sadeas trick us into this, but I will not blame you for his deceit. Adolin reached over, gripping Dalinars Plate-covered arm. You are right to follow the Codes. You were right to try to unite Alethkar. And I was a fool for fighting you on it every step along the path. Perhaps if I hadnt spent so much time distracting you, we would have seen this day coming. Dalinar blinked, dumbfounded. This was Adolin speaking those words? What had changed in the boy? And why did he speak these words now, at the dawn of Dalinars greatest failure? And yet, as the words hung in the air, Dalinar felt his guilt evaporating, blown away by the screams of the dying. It was a selfish emotion. Would he have had himself change? Yes, he could have been more cautious. He could have been warier of Sadeas. But would he have given up on the Codes? Would he have become the same pitiless killer hed been as a youth? No. Did it matter that the visions had been wrong about Sadeas? Was he ashamed of the man that they, and the readings from the book, had made him