How does he cross the chasms, then? Kaladin asked. The answer soon became obvious. This new army had enormous, siege- tower-like bridges pulled by chulls. They rumbled across the uneven plateaus, often having to pick their way around rifts in the stone. They must be terribly slow, Kaladin thought. But, in trade, the army wouldnt have to approach the chasm while being fired on. They could hide behind those bridges. Dalinar Kholin, Moash said. They say hes a true lighteyes, like the men from the old days. A man of honor and of oaths. Kaladin snorted. Ive seen plenty of lighteyes with that same reputation, and Ive been disappointed by them every time. Ill tell you about Brightlord Amaram sometime. Amaram? Skar asked. The Shardbearer? Youve heard of that? Kaladin asked. Sure, Skar said. Hes supposed to be on his way here. Everyones talking about it in the taverns. Were you with him when he won his Shards? No, Kaladin said softly. Nobody was. Dalinar Kholins army approached across the plateau to the south. Amazingly, Dalinars army came right up to the battlefield plateau. Hes attacking? Moash said, scratching his head. Maybe he figures that Sadeas will lose, and wants to take a stab at it after he retreats. No, Kaladin said, frowning. Hes joining the battle. The Parshendi army sent over some archers to fire on Dalinars army, but their arrows bounced off the chulls without causing any harm. A group of soldiers unhooked the bridges and pushed them into place while Dalinars archers set up and exchanged fire with the Parshendi. Does it seem Sadeas took fewer soldiers with him this run? Sigzil asked, joining the group watching Dalinars army. Perhaps he planned for this. Could be why he was willing to commit like he did, letting himself get surrounded. The bridges could be cranked to lower and extend; there was some marvelous engineering at work. As they began to work, something decidedly strange happened: Two Shardbearers, likely Dalinar and his son, leaped across the chasm and began attacking the Parshendi. The distraction let the soldiers get the large bridges into place, and some heavy cavalry charged across to help. It was a completely different method of doing a bridge assault, and Kaladin found himself considering the implications. He really is joining the battle, Moash said. I think theyre going to work together. Its bound to be more effective, Kaladin said. Im surprised they havent tried it before.