with a prominent nose. Some said they saw in him a kingly air and a regal bearing, and women Adolin trusted had confided that they found the king quite handsome. Not as handsome as Adolin, of course. But still handsome. The king was married, however; his wife the queen managed his affairs back in Alethkar. Uncle, Elhokar said. Can we not be on our way? Im certain that we Shardbearers could leap the chasm. You and I could be back at the warcamps shortly. I will not leave my men, Your Majesty, Dalinar said. And I doubt you want to be running across the plateaus for several hours alone, exposed, without proper guards. I suppose, the king said. Either way, I did want to thank you for your bravery today. It appears that I owe you my life yet again. Keeping you alive is something else I try very hard to make a habit, Your Majesty. I am glad for it. Have you looked into the item I asked you about? He nodded to the girth, which Adolin realized he was still carrying in a gauntleted hand. I did, Dalinar said. Well? We couldnt decide, Your Majesty, Dalinar said, taking the strap and handing it to the king. It may have been cut. The tear is smoother along one side. Like it was weakened so that it would rip. I knew it! Elhokar held the strap up and inspected it. We are not leatherworkers, Your Majesty, Dalinar said. We need to give both sides of the strap to experts and get their opinions. I have instructed Adolin to look into the matter further. It was cut, Elhokar said. I can see it clearly, right here. I keep telling you, Uncle. Someone is trying to kill me. They want me, just like they wanted my father. Surely you dont think the Parshendi did this, Dalinar said, sounding shocked. I dont know who did it. Perhaps someone on this very hunt. Adolin frowned. What was Elhokar implying? The majority of the people on this hunt were Dalinars men. Your Majesty, Dalinar said frankly, we will look into the matter. But you have to be prepared to accept that this might have just been an accident. You dont believe me, Elhokar said flatly. You never believe me. Dalinar took a deep breath, and Adolin could see that his father had to