Sadeass face when you become a full Shardbearer. Beyond that, if your strength is made equal to others, I expect that your natural skill will make you shine. Renarin smiled. Shardplate wouldnt solve everything, but Renarin would have his chance. Dalinar would see to it. I know what its like to be a second son, he thought as they continued walking toward the kings chambers, overshadowed by an older brother you love yet envy at the same time. Stormfather, but I do. I still feel that way. Ah, good Brightlord Adolin, the ardent said, walking forward with open arms. Kadash was a tall man in his later years, and wore the shaved head and square beard of his Calling. He also had a twisting scar that ran around the top of his head, a memento from his earlier days as an army officer. It was uncommon to find a man such as hima lighteyes who had once been a soldierin the ardentia. In fact, it was odd for any man to change his Calling. But it wasnt forbidden, and Kadash had risen far in the ardentia considering his late start. Dalinar said it was a sign of either faith or perseverance. Perhaps both. The warcamps temple had started as a large Soulcast dome, then Dalinar had granted money and stonemasons to transform it into a more suitable house of worship. Carvings of the Heralds now lined the inside walls, and broad windows carved on the leeward side had been set with glass to let in the light. Diamond spheres blazed in bunches hung from the high ceiling, and stands had been set up for the instruction, practice, and testing of the various arts. Many women were in at the moment, receiving instruction from the ardents. There were fewer men. Being at war, it was easy to practice the masculine arts in the field. Janala folded her arms, scanning the temple with obvious dissatisfaction as she stood beside Adolin. First a stinky leatherworkers shop, now the temple? I had assumed we would walk someplace at least faintly romantic. Religions romantic, Adolin said, scratching his head. Eternal love and all that, right? She eyed him. Im going to go wait outside. She turned and walked out with her handmaiden. And someone get me a storming palanquin. Adolin frowned, watching her go. Ill have to buy her something quite expensive to make up for this, I suspect.