nodding toward the pouch at his waist. Teft shook his head. Hed watched; the Stormlight rising from Kaladin hadnt been visible to those observing, not in the light of day. Still, the way Kaladin had dodged would have looked incredible, even without the obvious light. If there had been stories about him before, they would grow greatly following this. He turned to look at the passing troops. As he did, he realized something. He still had to deal with Matal. Fall into line, men, he said. They obeyed reluctantly, falling into place around him in a double rank. Ahead, Matal stood beside their bridge. He looked concerned, as well he should. Sadeas was riding up. Kaladin steeled himself, remembering how his previous victorywhen theyd run with the bridge on its sidehad been turned on its head. He hesitated, then hurried over toward the bridge where Sadeas was going to ride past Matal. Kaladins men followed. Kaladin arrived as Matal bowed to Sadeas, who wore his glorious red Shardplate. Kaladin and the bridgemen bowed as well. Avarak Matal, Sadeas said. He nodded toward Kaladin. This man looks familiar. He is the one from before, Brightlord, Matal said, nervous. The one who Ah yes, Sadeas said. The miracle. And you sent him forward as a decoy like that? One would think that you would be hesitant to dare such measures. I take full responsibility, Brightlord, Matal said, putting the best face on it. Sadeas regarded the battlefield. Well, luckily for you, it worked. I suppose Ill have to promote you now. He shook his head. Those savages practically ignored the assault force. All twenty bridges set, most with nary a casualty. It seems like a waste, somehow. Consider yourself commended. Most remarkable, the way that boy dodged He kicked his horse into motion, leaving Matal and the bridgemen behind. It was the most backhanded promotion Kaladin had ever heard, but that would do. Kaladin smiled broadly as Matal turned to him, eyes enraged. You Matal sputtered. You could have gotten me executed! Instead I got you promoted, Kaladin said, Bridge Four forming around him. I should see you strung up anyway. Its been tried, Kaladin said. Didnt work. Besides, you know that from now on Sadeas is going to expect me to be out there distracting the archers. Good luck getting any other bridgeman to try that. Matals face grew red. He turned and stalked away to check on the other