Kal gaped at her, then felt his face redden even more. ImIm not going to fetch you anything! he managed to say. I wouldnt do it no matter how many spheres you offer me. Im not an errand boy, Im a surgeon. Oh, youre that ones son. I am, Kal said, surprised at how proudly he felt those words. Im not going to be bullied by you, Rillir Roshone. Just like my father isnt bullied by yours. Except, they are making a deal right now. Father didnt mention how amusing you were, Rillir said, leaning back against the wall. He seemed a decade older than Kal, not a mere two years. So you find it shameful to fetch a man his meal? Being a surgeon makes you that much better than the kitchen staff? Well, no. Its just not my Calling. Then what is your Calling? Making sick people well. And if I dont eat, wont I be sick? So couldnt you call it your duty to see me fed? Kal frowned. Itswell, its not the same thing at all. I see it as being very similar. Look, why dont you just go get yourself some food? Its not my Calling. Then what is your Calling? Kal returned, throwing the mans own words back at him. Im cityheir, Rillir said. My duty is to leadto see that jobs get done and that people are occupied in productive work. And as such, I give important tasks to idling darkeyes to make them useful. Kal hesitated, growing angry. You see how his little mind works, Rillir said to Laral. Like a dying fire, burning what little fuel it has, pumping out smoke. Ah, and look, his face grows red from the heat of it. Rillir, please, Laral said, laying her hand on his arm. Rillir glanced at her, then rolled his eyes. Youre as provincial as my father sometimes, dear. He stood up straight andwith a look of resignationled her past the nook and into the kitchen proper. Kal sat back down hard, nearly bruising his legs on the bench with the force of it. A serving boy brought him his food and set it on the table, but that only reminded Kal of his childishness. So he didnt eat it; he just stared at it until, eventually, his father walked into the kitchen. Rillir and Laral were gone by then.