He looked over the bridgemen. His men were resigned, despondent, terrified. If they refused to run, theyd be executed. If they did run, theyd face the arrows. They didnt look toward the distant line of Parshendi archers. Instead, they looked down. They are your men, Kaladin told himself. They need you to lead them, even if they dont know it. How can you lead from the rear? He stepped out of line and rounded the bridge; two of the menDrehy and Teftlooked up in shock as he passed. The deathpointthe spot in the very center of the frontwas being held by Rock, the beefy, tan-skinned Horneater. Kaladin tapped him on the shoulder. Youre in my spot, Rock. The man glanced at him, surprised. But To the back with you. Rock frowned. Nobody ever tried to jump ahead in the order. Youre airsick, lowlander, he said with his thick accent. You wish to die? Why do you not just go leap into the chasm? That would be easier. Im bridgeleader. Its my privilege to run at the front. Go. Rock shrugged, but did as ordered, taking Kaladins position at the back. Nobody said a word. If Kaladin wanted to get himself killed, who were they to complain? Kaladin looked over the bridgemen. The longer we take to get this bridge down, the more arrows they can loose at us. Stay firm, stay determined, and be quick . Raise bridge! The men lifted, inner rows moving underneath and situating themselves in rows of five across. Kaladin stood at the very front with a tall, stout man named Leyten to his left, a spindly man named Murk to his right. Adis and Corl were at the edges. Five men in front. The deathline. Once all of the crews had their bridges up, Gaz gave the command. Assault! They ran, dashing alongside the standing ranks of the army, passing soldiers holding spears and shields. Some watched with curiosity, perhaps amused at the sight of the lowly bridgemen running so urgently to their deaths. Others looked away, perhaps ashamed of the lives it would cost to get them across that chasm. Kaladin kept his eyes forward, squelching that incredulous voice in the back of his mind, one that screamed he was doing something very stupid. He barreled toward the final chasm, focused on the Parshendi line. Figures with black and crimson skin holding bows. Syl flitted close to Kaladins head, no longer in the form of a person, streaking like a ribbon of light. She zipped in front of him.