But it was too late. Though Kaladin stood near the battlefield, his menas was their practicehad fallen back to the nearest rock outcropping for shelter. The one theyd chosen was close enough to see the battle, but was well protected from arrows. The Parshendi always ignored bridgemen after the initial assault, though the Alethi were careful to leave rear guards to protect the landing point and watch for Parshendi trying to cut off their retreat. The soldiers finally maneuvered Bridge Six into place, and two more bridge crews got theirs down, but half of the bridges hadnt made it. The army had to reorganize on the run, dashing forward to support the cavalry, splitting to cross where the bridges had been set. Teft left the outcropping and grabbed Kaladin by the arm, tugging him back to relative safety. Kaladin allowed himself to be pulled along, but he still looked at the battlefield, a horrible realization coming to him. Rock stepped up beside Kaladin, clapping him on the shoulder. The large Horneaters hair was plastered to his head with sweat, but he was smiling broadly. Is miracle! Not a single man wounded! Moash stepped up beside them. Stormfather! I cant believe what we just did. Kaladin, youve changed bridge runs forever! No, Kaladin said softly. Ive completely undermined our assault. IWhat? Stormfather! Kaladin thought. The heavy cavalry had been cut off. A cavalry charge needed an unbroken line; it was the intimidation as much as anything that made it work. But here, the Parshendi could dodge out of the way, then come at the horsemen from the flanks. And the foot soldiers hadnt gotten in quickly enough to help. Several groups of horsemen fought completely surrounded. Soldiers bunched up around the bridges that had been set, trying to get across, but the Parshendi had a solid foothold and were repelling them. Spearmen fell from the bridges, and the Parshendi then managed to topple one entire bridge into the chasm. The Alethi forces were soon on the defensive, the soldiers focused on holding the bridgeheads to secure an avenue of retreat for the cavalry. Kaladin watched, really watched . Hed never studied the tactics and needs of the entire army in these assaults. Hed considered only the needs of his own crew. It was a foolish mistake, and he should have known better. He would have known better, if hed still thought of himself as a real soldier. He hated Sadeas; he hated the way the man used bridge crews. But he shouldnt have changed Bridge Fours basic tactics without considering the larger scheme of the battle. I deflected attention to the other bridge crews, Kaladin thought. That got us to the chasm too soon, and slowed some of the others.