Arrogant, Kaladin said, vengeful, greedy, corrupt to the core. Rock smiled. Yes, I think you are right. This man is not among the finest of lighteyes. There are no finest among them, Rock. Theyre all the same. They have done much to you, then? Kaladin shrugged, the question uncovering wounds that werent yet healed. Anyway, your master was lucky. Lucky to be slain by a Shardbearer? Lucky he didnt win, Kaladin said, and discover how hed been tricked. They wouldnt have let him walk away with Sadeass Plate. Nonsense, Teft broke in. Tradition Tradition is the blind witness they use to condemn us, Teft, Kaladin said. Its the pretty box they use to wrap up their lies. It makes us serve them. Teft set his jaw. Ive lived a lot longer than you, son. I know things. If a common man killed an enemy Shardbearer, hed become a lighteyes. Thats the way of it. He let the argument lapse. If Tefts illusions made him feel better about his place in this mess of a war, then who was Kaladin to dissuade him? So you were a servant, Kaladin said to Rock. In a brightlords retinue? What kind of servant? He struggled for the right word, remembering back to the times hed interacted with Wistiow or Roshone. A footman? A butler? Rock laughed. I was cook. My nuatoma would not come down to the lowlands without his own cook! Your food here, it has so many spices that you cannot taste anything else. Might as well be eating stones powdered with pepper!  You should talk about food, Teft said, scowling. A Horneater? Kaladin frowned. Why do they call your people that, anyway? Because they eat the horns and shells of the things they catch, Teft said. The outsides. Rock smiled, with a look of longing. Ah, but the taste is so good. You actually eat the shells? Kaladin asked. We have very strong teeth, Rock said proudly. But there. You now know my story. Brightlord Sadeas, he wasnt certain what he should do with most of us. Some were made soldiers, others serve in his house hold. I fixed him one meal and he sent me to bridge crews. Rock hesitated. I may have, uh, enhanced the soup. Enhanced? Kaladin asked, raising an eyebrow. Rock seemed to grow embarrassed. You see, I was quite angry about my nuatoma s death. And I thought, these lowlanders, their tongues are all scorched