Dalinars heart raced. He had to hold himself back from summoning his Blade. But what? Sadeas said to Fin. But when the kings head grooms took the horse past on its way to the Highprince Dalinars camp, it was wearing a different saddle. I swear it. Several of those standing around them seemed confused by this admission. Aha! Adolin said, pointing. But that happened in the kings palace complex! Indeed, Sadeas said, raising an eyebrow at Adolin. How keen-minded of you, young Kholin. This discoverymixed with the cracked gemstonesmeans something. I suspect that whoever attempted to kill His Majesty planted in his Shardplate flawed gemstones that would crack when strained, losing their Stormlight. Then they weakened the saddle girth with a careful slit. The hope would be that His Majesty would fall while fighting a great-shell, allowing it to attack him. The gemstones would fail, the Plate would break, and His Majesty would fall to an accident while hunting. Sadeas raised a finger as the crowd began to whisper again. However, it is important to realize that these eventsthe switching of the saddle or the planting of the gemstonesmust have happened before His Majesty met up with Dalinar. I feel that Dalinar is a very unlikely suspect. In fact, my present guess is that the culprit is someone that Brightlord Dalinar has offended; that someone wanted us all to think he might be involved. It may not have actually been intended to kill His Majesty, just to cast suspicion upon Dalinar. The island fell silent, even the whispers dying. Dalinar stood, stunned. II was right! Adolin finally broke the quiet.  What?  All evidence points to your father being innocent, Adolin, Sadeas said sufferingly. You find this surprising? No, but Adolins brow furrowed. Around them, the lighteyes began talking, sounding disappointed. They began to disperse. Dalinars officers remained standing behind him, as if expecting a surprise strike. Blood of my fathers Dalinar thought. What does it mean? Sadeas waved for his men to take the groom away, then nodded to Elhokar and withdrew in the direction of the evening trays, where warmed wine sat in pitchers next to toasted breads. Dalinar caught up to Sadeas as the shorter man was filling a small plate. Dalinar took him by the arm, the fabric of Sadeass robe soft beneath his fingers. Sadeas looked at him, raising an eyebrow.