He poured some water on his hand from his own canteen and flung it at the brown snarlbrush. Wherever sprayed droplets fell, the brush grew instantly green, as if he were throwing paint. The brush wasnt dead; it just dried out, waiting for the storms to come. Kal watched the patches of green slowly fade back to tan as the water was absorbed. Kaladin! Tien yelled. He often used Kals full name, even though Kal had asked him not to. Is this one? Kal moved down across the boulders, pocketing the rock hed been given. As he did so, he passed Laral. She was looking westward, toward her familys mansion. Her father was the citylord of Hearthstone. Kal found his eyes lingering on her again. That hair of hers was beautiful, with the two stark colors. She turned to Kal and frowned. Were going to hunt some lurgs, he explained, smiling and gesturing toward Tien. Come on. Youre cheerful suddenly. I dont know. I feel better. How does he do that? I wonder. Who does what? Your brother, Laral said, looking toward Tien. He changes you. Tiens head popped up behind some stones and he waved eagerly, bouncing up and down with excitement. Its just hard to be gloomy when hes around, Kal said. Come on. Do you want to watch the lurg or not? I suppose, Laral said with a sigh. She held out a hand toward him. Whats that for? Kal asked, looking at her hand. To help me down. Laral, youre a better climber than me or Tien. You dont need help. Its polite, stupid, she said, proffering her hand more insistently. Kal sighed and took it, then she proceeded to hop down without even leaning on it or needing his help. She, he thought, has been acting very strange lately. The two of them joined Tien, who jumped down into a hollow between some boulders. The younger boy pointed eagerly. A silky patch of white grew in a crevice on the rock. It was made of tiny threads spun together into a ball about the size of a boys fist. Im right, arent I? Tien asked. That is one? Kal lifted the flask and poured water down the side of the stone onto the patch of white. The threads dissolved in the simulated rainwater, the cocoon melting to reveal a small creature with slick brown and green skin. The lurg had six legs that it used to grip the stone, and its eyes were in the center of its back. It