willing to allow Sadeas his authority as Highprince of Information. I cant rely upon the old traditions for my authority yet deny Sadeas the same right. I suppose, Adolin admitted. But we could still prepare. You cant tell me youre not a little worried. Dalinar hesitated. Perhaps. This maneuver of Sadeass is aggressive. But Ive been told what to do. Trust Sadeas. Be strong. Act with honor, and honor will aid you. That is the advice Ive been given. From where? Dalinar looked to him, and it became obvious to Adolin. So were betting the future of our house on these visions now, Adolin said flatly. I wouldnt say that, Dalinar replied. If Sadeas did move against us, I wouldnt simply let him shove us over. But Im also not going to make the first move against him. Because of what youve seen, Adolin said, growing frustrated. Father, you said youd listen to what I had to say about the visions. Well, please listen now. This isnt the proper place. You always have an excuse, Adolin said. Ive tried to approach you about it five times now, and you always rebuff me! Perhaps its because I know what youll say, Dalinar said. And I know it wont do any good. Or perhaps its because you dont want to be confronted by the truth. Thats enough, Adolin. No, no its not! Were mocked in every one of the warcamps, our authority and reputation diminishes by the day, and you refuse to do anything substantial about it! Adolin. I will not take this from my son. But youll take it from everyone else? Why is that, Father? When others say things about us, you let them. But when Renarin or I take the smallest step toward what you view as being inappropriate, were immediately chastised! Everyone else can speak lies, but I cant speak the truth? Do your sons mean so little to you? Dalinar froze, looking as if hed been slapped. You arent well , Father, Adolin continued. Part of him realized that he had gone too far, that he was speaking too loudly, but it boiled out anyway. We need to stop tiptoeing around it! You need to stop making up increasingly irrational explanations to reason away your lapses! I know its hard to accept, but sometimes, people get old. Sometimes, the mind stops working right.