ground, dropping his Shardblade. The weapon reverted to mist, vanishing. It was a protection from keeping a Blade from being taken by your enemies; they vanished unless you willed them to stay when releasing them. Elhokar! Dalinar bellowed. The king rolled, cape wrapping around his body, then came to rest. He lay dazed for a moment; the armor was cracked on one shoulder, leaking Stormlight. The Plate would have cushioned the fall. Hed be all right. Unless A claw loomed above the king. Dalinar felt a moment of panic, turning Gallant to charge toward the king. He was going to be too slow! The beast would An enormous arrow slammed into the chasmfiends head, cracking chitin. Purple gore spurted free, causing the beast to trump in agony. Dalinar twisted in the saddle. Sadeas stood in his red Plate, taking another massive arrow from an attendant. He drew, launching the thick bolt into the chasmfiends shoulder with a sharp crack. Dalinar raised Oathbringer in salute. Sadeas acknowledged, raising his bow. They were not friends, and they did not like one another. But they would protect the king. That was the bond that united them. Get to safety! Dalinar yelled to the king as he charged past. Elhokar stumbled to his feet and nodded. Dalinar moved in. He had to distract the beast long enough for Elhokar to get away. More of Sadeass arrows flew true, but the monster started to ignore them. Its sluggishness vanished, and its bleats became angry, wild, crazed. It was growing truly enraged. This was the most dangerous part; there would be no retreating now. It would follow them until it either killed them or was slain. A claw smashed to the ground just beside Gallant, throwing chips of stone into the air. Dalinar hunkered low, careful to keep his Shardblade out, and he cut free another leg. Adolin had done the same on the other side. Seven legs down, half of them. How long before the beast dropped? Normally, at this stage, they had launched several dozen arrows into the animal. It was difficult to guess what one would do without that prior softeningbeside that, hed never fought one this large before. He turned Gallant, trying to draw the creatures attention. Hopefully, Elhokar had Are you a god! Elhokar bellowed. Dalinar groaned, looking over his shoulder. The king had not fled. He strode