It means everything, Kaladin said, glancing back at the barrack. It means life and death. But were going to need more help. Another bridge crew? No, I mean that weyou and Iwill need help. One more man, at least. He scanned the lumberyard, and noted someone sitting in the shadow of Bridge Fours barrack. Teft. The grizzled bridgeman hadnt been among the group that had laughed at Kaladin earlier, but he had been quick to help yesterday, going with Rock to carry Leyten. Kaladin took a deep breath and strode out across the grounds, Rock trailing behind. Syl left his shoulder and zipped into the air, dancing on a sudden gust of wind. Teft looked up as Kaladin and Rock approached. The older man had fetched breakfast, and he was eating alone, a piece of flatbread peeking out beneath his bowl. His beard was stained by the curry, and he regarded Kaladin with wary eyes before wiping his mouth on his sleeve. I like my food, son, he said. Hardly think they feed me enough for one man. Let alone two. Kaladin squatted in front of him. Rock leaned up against the wall and folded his arms, watching quietly. I need you, Teft, Kaladin said. I said Not your food. You. Your loyalty. Your allegiance. The older man continued to eat. He didnt have a slave brand, and neither did Rock. Kaladin didnt know their stories. All he knew was that these two had helped when others hadnt. They werent completely beaten down. Teft Kaladin began. Ive given my loyalty before, the man said. Too many times now. Always works out the same. Your trust gets betrayed? Kaladin asked softly. Teft snorted. Storms, no. I betray it . You cant depend on me, son. I belong here, as a bridgeman. I depended on you yesterday, and you impressed me. Fluke. Ill judge that, Kaladin said. Teft, were all broken, in one way or another. Otherwise we wouldnt be bridgemen. Ive failed. My own brother died because of me. So why keep caring? Its either that or give up and die. And if death is better? It came back to this problem. This was why the bridgemen didnt care if he