Lirin walked to the alcove and surveyed Kal. You didnt eat. Kal shook his head. You should have. It was free. Come on. They walked in silence from the mansion into the dark night. The carriage awaited them, and soon Kal again sat facing his father. The driver climbed into place, making the vehicle quiver, and a snap of his whip set the horses in motion. I want to be a surgeon, Kal said suddenly. His fathers facehidden in shadowwas unreadable. But when he spoke, he sounded confused. I know that, son. No. I want to be a surgeon. I dont want to run away to join the war. Silence in the darkness. You were considering that? Lirin asked. Yes, Kal admitted. It was childish. But Ive decided for myself that I want to learn surgery instead. Why? What made you change? I need to know how they think, Kal said, nodding back toward the mansion. Theyre trained to speak their sentences in knots, and I have to be able to face them and talk back at them. Not fold like He hesitated. Like I did? Lirin asked with a sigh. Kal bit his lip, but had to ask. How many spheres did you agree to give him? Will I still have enough to go to Kharbranth? I didnt give him a thing. But Roshone and I talked for a time, arguing over amounts. I pretended to grow hotheaded and left. Pretended? Kal asked, confused. His father leaned forward, whispering to make certain the driver couldnt hear. With the bouncing and the noise of the wheels on the stone, there was little danger of that. He has to think that Im willing to bend. Todays meeting was about giving the appearance of desperation. A strong front at first, followed by frustration, letting him think that hed gotten to me. Finally a retreat. Hell invite me again in a few months, after letting me sweat. But you wont bend then, either? Kal whispered. No. Giving him any of the spheres would make him greedy for the rest. These lands dont produce as they used to, and Roshone is nearly broke from losing political battles. I still dont know which highlord was behind sending him here to torment us, though I wish I had him for a few moments in a dark room. The ferocity with which Lirin said that shocked Kal. It was the closest hed