all, he was still embarrassed. He lay back down, emotions welling inside of him. He had trouble sorting through them. Kaladin? He turned, ashamed to find tears in his eyes, and saw Tien sitting on the ground behind him. How long have you been there? Kal snapped. Tien smiled, then set a rock on the ground. He climbed to his feet and hurried away, not stopping when Kal called after him. Grumbling, Kal forced himself to his feet and walked over to pick up the rock. It was another dull, ordinary stone. Tien had a habit of finding those and thinking they were incredibly precious. He had an entire collection of them back in the house. He knew where hed found each one, and could tell you what was special about it. With a sigh, Kal began walking back toward the town. You go be what you are. Ill be what I am. His side smarted. Why hadnt he hit Jost when hed had the chance? Could he train himself out of freezing in battle like that? He could learn to hurt. Couldnt he? Did he want to? You go be what you are. What did a man do if he didnt know what he was? Or even what he wanted to be? Eventually, he reached Hearthstone proper. The hundred or so buildings were set in rows, each one shaped like a wedge with the low side pointing stormward. The roofs were of thick wood, tarred to seal out the rain. The northern and southern sides of the buildings rarely had windows, but the fronts facing west away from the stormswere nearly all window. Like the plants of the stormlands, the lives of men here were dominated by the highstorms. Kals home was near the outskirts. It was larger than most, built wide to accommodate the surgery room, which had its own entrance. The door was ajar, so Kal peeked in. Hed expected to see his mother cleaning, but instead found that his father had returned from Brightlord Wistiows manor. Lirin sat on the edge of the operating table, hands in his lap, bald head bowed. He held his spectacles in his hand, and he looked exhausted. Father? Kal asked. Why are you sitting in the dark? Lirin looked up. His face was somber, distant. Father? Kal asked, growing more concerned. Brightlord Wistiow has been carried by the winds. Hes dead ? Kal was so shocked he forgot his side. Wistiow had always