very precious import. To search one would be like strip-searching her considering her rank, either would be virtually unthinkable unless she were obviously implicated in a crime. Jasnah could probably force it. But if Jasnah could do that, she could order a search of Shallans room, and her trunk would be under particular scrutiny. The truth was, if Jasnah chose to suspect her, there would be little Shallan could do to hide the fabrial. So the safepouch was as good a place as any. She gathered up the pictures shed drawn and put them upside-down on the desk, trying not to look at them. She didnt want those to be seen by the maid. Finally, she left, taking her portfolio. She felt that she needed to get outside and escape for a while. Draw something other than death and murder. The conversation with Nan Balat had only served to upset her more. Brightness? the maid asked. Shallan froze, but the maid held up a basket. This was dropped off for you with the master-servants. She hesitantly accepted it, looking inside. Bread and jam. A note, tied to one of the jars, read: Bluebar jam. If you like it, it means youre mysterious, reserved, and thoughtful. It was signed Kabsal. Shallan placed the baskets handle in the crook of her safearms elbow. Kabsal. Maybe she should go find him. She always felt better after a conversation with him. But no. She was going to leave; she couldnt keep stringing him, or herself, along. She was afraid of where the relationship was going. Instead, she made her way to the main cavern and then to the Conclaves exit. She walked out into the sunlight and took a deep breath, looking up into the sky as servants and attendants parted around her, swarming in and out of the Conclave. She held her portfolio close, feeling the cool breeze on her cheeks and the contrasting warmth of the sunlight pressing down on her hair and forehead. In the end, the most disturbing part was that Jasnah had been right. Shallans world of simple answers had been a foolish, childish place. Shed clung to the hope that she could find truth, and use it to explainperhaps justifywhat she had done back in Jah Keved. But if there was such a thing as truth, it was far more complicated and murky than shed assumed. Some problems didnt seem to have any good answers. Just a lot of wrong ones. She could choose the source of her guilt, but she couldnt choose to be rid of that guilt entirely.