crushing the blackbane leaf inside, then dropped it over the side of the chasm. He lowered the other hand, which had been holding Syl. She zipped up into the air, anxious. Kaladin? He stalked away from the chasm, bare feet splashing in puddles and stepping heedlessly on rockbud vines. The incline hed come down was covered with flat, slatelike plants that had opened like books to the rain, ruffled lacy red and green leaves connecting the two halves. Lifesprenlittle green blips of light, brighter than Syl but small as sporesdanced among the plants, dodging raindrops. Kaladin strode up, water streaming past him in tiny rivers. At the top, he returned to the bridge yard. It was still empty save for Gaz, who was tying a ripped tarp back into place. Kaladin had crossed most of the distance to the man before Gaz noticed him. The wiry sergeant scowled. Too cowardly to go through with it, Your Lordship? Well, if you think Im giving back He cut off with a gagging noise as Kaladin lunged forward, grabbing Gaz by the neck. Gaz lifted an arm in surprise, but Kaladin batted it away and swept the mans legs out from under him, slamming him down to the rocky ground, throwing up a splash of water. Gazs eyes opened wide with shock and pain, and he began to strangle under the pressure of Kaladins grip on his throat. The world just changed, Gaz, Kaladin said, leaning in close. I died down at that chasm. Now youve got my vengeful spirit to deal with. Squirming, Gaz looked about frantically for help that wasnt there. Kaladin didnt have trouble holding him down. There was one thing about running bridges: If you survived long enough, it built up the muscles. Kaladin let up slightly on Gazs neck, allowing him a gasping breath. Then Kaladin leaned down further. Were going to start over new, you and I. Clean. And I want you to understand something from the start. Im already dead. You cant hurt me. Understand? Gaz nodded slowly and Kaladin gave him another breath of frigid, humid air. Bridge Four is mine, Kaladin said. You can assign us tasks, but Im bridgeleader. The other one died today, so you have to pick a new leader anyway. Understand? Gaz nodded again. You learn quickly, Kaladin said, letting the man breathe freely. He stepped back, and Gaz hesitantly got to his feet. There was hatred in his eyes, but it was veiled. He seemed worried about somethingsomething more than Kaladins threats. I want to stop paying down my slave debt, Kaladin said. How much do