delusions. Shed been businesslike and careful. She sat at his writing desk now, hair bound up in curls and crossed with four hair-spikes. Her dress was red, matched by her lip paint, and her beautiful violet eyes were curious. Stormfather, Dalinar thought, but shes beautiful. Well? Adolin asked. He stood leaning against the door out of the chamber. Renarin had gone off to collect a highstorm damage report. The lad needed practice at that sort of activity. Navani raised an eyebrow. What was that, Adolin? What do you think, Aunt? Adolin asked. I have never heard of any of these places or events, Navani said. But I believe you werent expecting to me to know of them. Didnt you say you wished me to contact Jasnah? Yes, Adolin said. But surely you have analysis. I reserve judgment, dear, Navani said, standing up and folding the paper by pressing down with her safehand, holding it in place while she creased the fold tight. She smiled, walking by Adolin and patting him on the shoulder. Lets see what Jasnah says before we do any analyzing, shall we? I suppose, Adolin said. He sounded dissatisfied. I spent some time talking with that young lady of yours yesterday, Navani noted to him. Danlan? I think youve made a wise choice. Shes got a mind in that head of hers. Adolin perked up. You like her? Quite a bit, Navani said. I also discovered that she is very fond of avramelons. Did you know that? I didnt, actually. Good. I would have hated to do all that work to find you a means of pleasing her, only to discover that you already knew it. I took the liberty of purchasing a basket of the melons on my way here. Youll find them in the antechamber, watched over by a bored soldier who didnt look like he was doing anything important. If you were to visit her with them this afternoon, I think youd find yourself very well received. Adolin hesitated. He probably knew that Navani was deflecting him from worrying over Dalinar. However, he relaxed, then started smiling. Well, that might make for a pleasant change, considering events lately. I thought it might, Navani said. Id suggest going soon; those melons are perfectly ripe. Besides, I wish to speak with your father. Adolin kissed Navani fondly on the cheek. Thank you, Mashala. He allowed her to get away with some things that others could not; around his favored aunt, he was much like a child again. Adolins smile widened as he