Lirin didnt respond for a moment. I see. You would have let him die if I hadnt been there, wouldnt you? Silence. Why didnt you? Kaladin said. It would have solved so much! It wouldnt have been letting him die. It would have been murdering him. You could have just let him bleed, then claimed you couldnt save him. Nobody would have questioned you. You could have done it. No, Lirin said, staring at the sunset. No, I couldnt have. But why? Because Im not a killer, son. Kaladin frowned. Lirin had a distant look in his eyes. Somebody has to start. Somebody has to step forward and do what is right, because it is right. If nobody starts, then others cannot follow. The lighteyes do their best to kill themselves, and to kill us. The others still havent brought back Alds and Milp. Roshone just left them there. Alds and Milp, two townsmen, had been on the hunt but hadnt returned with the party bearing the two wounded lighteyes. Roshone had been so worried about Rillir that hed left them behind so he could travel quickly. The lighteyes dont care about life, Lirin said. So I must. Thats another reason why I wouldnt have let Roshone die, even if you hadnt been there. Though looking at you did strengthen me. I wish it hadnt, Kaladin said. You mustnt say such things. Why not? Because, son. We have to be better than they are. He sighed, standing. You should sleep. I may need you when the others return with Alds and Milp. That wasnt likely; the two townsmen were probably dead by now. Their wounds were said to be pretty bad. Plus, the whitespines were still out there. Lirin went inside, but didnt compel Kaladin to follow. Would I have let him die? Kaladin wondered. Maybe even flicked that knife to hasten him on his way? Roshone had been nothing but a blight since his arrival, but did that justify killing him? No. Cutting that artery wouldnt have been justified. But what obligation had Kaladin to help? Withholding his aid wasnt the same thing as killing. It just wasnt . Kaladin thought it through a dozen different ways, pondering his fathers words. What he found shocked him. He honestly would have let Roshone die on that table. It would have been better for Kaladins family; it would have been