Wealth and prestige are what being Alethi is about , Father! Adolin said. Was he really hearing this? What of the Vengeance Pact? The highprinces vowed to seek retribution upon the Parshendi! And we have sought it. Dalinar looked to Adolin. I realize that it sounds terrible, son, but some things are more important than vengeance. I loved Gavilar. I miss him fiercely, and I hate the Parshendi for what they did. But Gavilars life work was to unite Alethkar, and Ill go to Damnation before I let it break apart. Father, Adolin said, feeling pained, if theres something wrong here, its that were not trying hard enough. You think the highprinces are playing games? Well, show them the way it should be done! Instead of talking of retreat, we should be talking of advancing, striking at the Parshendi instead of besieging them. Perhaps. Either way, we cannot speak of withdrawing, Adolin said. The men already talked of Dalinar losing his spine. What would they say if they got hold of this? You havent brought this up with the king, have you? Not yet. I havent found the right way. Please. Dont talk to him about it. We shall see. Dalinar turned back toward the Shattered Plains, his eyes growing distant again. Father Youve made your point, son, and Ive replied to it. Do not press the issue. Have you gotten the report from the rear guard? Yes. What of the vanguard? I just checked with them and He trailed off. Blast. It had been long enough that it was probably time to move the kings party onward. The last of the army couldnt leave this plateau until the king was safely on the other side. Adolin sighed and went off to collect the report. Before long, they were all across the chasm and riding over the next plateau. Renarin trotted up to Adolin and tried to engage him in conversation, but Adolin gave only halfhearted replies. He was beginning to feel an odd longing. Most of the older men in the army even those only a few years older than Adolinhad fought alongside his father during the glory days. Adolin found himself jealous of all of those men who had known his father and had seen him fight when he hadnt been so wrapped up in the Codes. The changes in Dalinar had begun with the death of his brother. That terrible