to be a scholara true scholar who changes the worldthen you will need to face questions like this. There will be times when you must make decisions that churn your stomach, Shallan Davar. Ill have you ready to make those decisions. Jasnah fell silent, looking out the side as the palanquin bearers marched them up to the Conclave. Too troubled to say more, Shallan suffered the rest of the trip in silence. She followed Jasnah through the hushed hallways to their rooms, passing scholars on their way to the Palanaeum for some midnight study. Inside their rooms, Shallan helped Jasnah undress, though she hated touching the woman. She shouldnt have felt that way. The men Jasnah had killed were terrible creatures, and she had little doubt that they would have killed her. But it wasnt the act itself so much as the cold callousness of it that bothered her. Still feeling numb, Shallan fetched Jasnah a sleeping robe as the woman removed her jewelry and set it on the dressing table. You could have let the other three get away, Shallan said, walking back toward Jasnah, who had sat down to brush her hair. You only needed to kill one of them. No, I didnt, Jasnah said. Why? They would have been too frightened to do something like that again. You dont know that. I sincerely wanted those men gone . A careless barmaid walking home the wrong way cannot protect herself, but I can. And I will. You have no authority to do so, not in someone elses city. True, Jasnah said. Another point to consider, I suppose. She raised the brush to her hair, pointedly turning away from Shallan. She closed her eyes, as if to shut Shallan out. The Soulcaster sat on the dressing table beside Jasnahs earrings. Shallan gritted her teeth, holding the soft, silken robe. Jasnah sat in her white underdress, brushing her hair. There will be times when you must make decisions that churn your stomach, Shallan Davar. Ive faced them already. Im facing one now. How dare Jasnah do this? How dare she make Shallan a part of it? How dare she use something beautiful and holy as a device for destruction? Jasnah didnt deserve to own the Soulcaster. With a swift move of her hand, Shallan tucked the folded robe under her safearm, then shoved her hand into her safepouch and popped out the intact