Shallan drew her charcoal-stained fingers to her chest, staring at her creation. It was one of dozens of drawings shed done during the last few days. The man turned into fire, the other frozen into crystal, the two transmuted to smoke. She could only draw one of those two fully; shed been facing down the alleyway to the east. Her drawings of the fourth mans death were of smoke rising, clothing already on the ground. She felt guilty for being unable to record his death. And she felt stupid for that guilt. Logic did not condemn Jasnah. Yes, the princess had gone willingly into danger, but that didnt remove responsibility from those who had chosen to hurt her. The mens actions were reprehensible. Shallan had spent the days poring through books on philosophy, and most ethical frameworks exonerated the princess. But Shallan had been there. Shed watched those men die. Shed seen the terror in their eyes, and she felt terrible. Hadnt there been another way? Kill or be killed. That was the Philosophy of Starkness. It exonerated Jasnah. Actions are not evil. Intent is evil, and Jasnahs intent had been to stop men from harming others. That was the Philosophy of Purpose. It lauded Jasnah. Morality is separate from the ideals of men. It exists whole somewhere, to be approachedbut never truly understoodby the mortal. The Philosophy of Ideals. It claimed that removing evil was ultimately moral, and so in destroying evil men, Jasnah was justified. Objective must be weighed against methods. If the goal is worthy, then the steps taken are worthwhile, even if some of themon their ownare reprehensible. The Philosophy of Aspiration. It, more than any, called Jasnahs actions ethical. Shallan pulled the sheet from her drawing board and tossed it down beside the others scattered across her bed. Her fingers moved again, clutching the charcoal pencil, beginning a new picture on the blank sheet strapped in place on the table, unable to escape. Her theft nagged at her as much as the killings did. Ironically, Jasnahs demand that Shallan study moralistic philosophy forced her to contemplate her own, terrible actions. Shed come to Kharbranth to steal the fabrial, then use it to save her brothers and their house from massive debt and destruction. Yet in the end, this wasnt why Shallan had stolen the Soulcaster. Shed taken it because she was angry with Jasnah. If the intentions were more important than the action, then she had to condemn herself. Perhaps the Philosophy of Aspirationwhich stated that objectives were more important than the steps taken to achieve themwould