Roshone followed, and though he was still laughing, his expression had grown hard. Lifeless. Like the dull clouds above. He had his revenge, but his son was still dead and he was still stuck in Hearthstone. Amaram regarded the crowd. The recruits may bring two changes of clothing and up to three stoneweights of other possessions. They will be weighed. Report to the army in two hours and ask for Sergeant Hav. He turned and followed Roshone. Tien stared after him, pale as a whitewashed building. Kaladin could see his terror at leaving his family. His brother, the one who always made him smile when it rained. It was physically painful for Kaladin to see him so scared. It wasnt right . Tien should smile. That was who he was. He felt the wooden horse in his pocket. Tien always brought him relief when he felt pained. Suddenly, it occurred to him that there was something he could do in turn. Its time to stop hiding in the room when someone else holds up the globe of light, Kaladin thought. Its time to be a man. Brightlord Amaram! Kaladin yelled. The general hesitated, standing on the stepstool into the carriage, one foot in the door. He glanced over his shoulder. I want to take Tiens place, Kaladin said. Not allowed! Roshone said from inside the carriage. The law says I may choose. Amaram nodded grimly. Then what if you take me as well , Kaladin said. Can I volunteer? That way, at least, Tien wouldnt be alone. Kaladin! Hesina said, grabbing him on one arm. It is allowed, Amaram said. I will not turn away any soldier, son. If you want to join, you are welcome. Kaladin, no, Lirin said. Dont both of you go. Dont Kaladin looked at Tien, the boys face wet beneath his wide-brimmed hat. He shook his head, but his eyes seemed hopeful. I volunteer, Kaladin said, turning back to Amaram. Ill go. Then you have two hours, Amaram said, climbing into the carriage. Same possession allotment as the others. The carriage door shut, but not before Kaladin got a glimpse of an even more satisfied Roshone. Rattling, the vehicle splashed away, dropping a sheet of water from its roof. Why? Lirin said, turning back to Kaladin, his voice ragged. Why have you done this to me? After all of our plans! Kaladin turned to Tien. The boy took his arm. Thank you, Tien whispered.