mind, and he could see the fight before it took place. Yank on the spear, throw the soldier off guard. Step forward and ram an elbow into his forearm, making him drop the weapon. Take control, spin the spear up and slam the soldier on the side of the head. Spin into a sweep to drop the two who came to help their companion. Raise the spear for the No. That would only get Kaladin killed. Kaladin released the butt of the spear. The soldier blinked in surprise that a mere bridgeman had blocked his blow. Scowling, the soldier jerked the butt up and slammed it into the side of Kaladins head. Kaladin let it hit him, rolling with it, allowing it to toss him to the ground. His head rang from the shock, but his eyesight stopped spinning after a moment. Hed have a headache, but probably no concussion. He took in a few deep breaths, lying on the ground, hands forming fists. His fingers seemed to burn where he had touched the spear. The soldier stepped back into position beside the palanquin. No laxness, Hashal said calmly. If you must know, my husband requested this assignment. The bridge crews are essential to Brightlord Sadeass advantage in the War of Reckoning. Their mismanagement under Lamaril was disgraceful. Rock knelt down, helping Kaladin to his feet while scowling at the lighteyes and their soldiers. Kaladin stumbled up, holding his hand to the side of his head. His fingers felt slick and wet, and a trickle of warm blood ran down his neck to his shoulder. From now on, Hashal said, aside from doing normal bridge duty, each crew will be assigned only one type of work duty. Gaz! The short bridge sergeant poked out from behind the palanquin. Kaladin hadnt noticed him there, behind the porters and the soldiers. Yes, Brightness? Gaz bowed several times. My husband wishes Bridge Four to be assigned chasm duty permanently. Whenever they are not needed for bridge duty, I want them working in those chasms. This will be far more efficient. They will know which sections have been scoured recently, and will not cover the same ground. You see? Efficiency. They will start immediately. She rapped on the side of her palanquin, and the porters turned, bearing her away. Her husband continued to walk alongside her without saying a word, and Gaz hurried to keep up. Kaladin stared after them, holding his hand to his head. Dunny ran and fetched him a bandage.