gotten through our lines. Not with the Radiants fighting. Radiants? Dalinar stepped closer to listen, but the man gave him a scowl and turned away. Whoever Dalinar was, the others didnt much care for him. Apparently, this keep was a fallback position behind the front lines of a war. So either that approaching force was friendly, or the enemy had punched through and sent an advance element to besiege the keep. These were reserves, then, which was probably why they had been left with a few horses. They still should have had outriders. When the scouts finally did gallop back to the keep, they bore white flags. Dalinar glanced at his companions, confirming his suspicions as they relaxed. White meant friends. Yet would he have been sent here if it were that simple? If it was just in his mind, would it fabricate a simple, boring vision when it never had before? We need to be alert for a trap, Dalinar said. Someone find out what those scouts saw. Did they identify banners only, or did they get a close look? The other soldiersincluding some of the archers who now filled the wall topgave him strange looks. Dalinar cursed softly, glancing back out at the shadowy oncoming force. He had a foreboding itch in the back of his skull. Ignoring the odd looks, he hefted his spear and ran down the walkway of the wall top, reaching a set of stairs. They were built in switchbacks, running in zigzags straight down the tall wall, with no railing. Hed been on such fortifications before, and knew how to keep his eyes focused on the steps to avoid vertigo. He reached the bottom andspear resting on his shoulderstruck out to find someone in charge. The buildings of Feverstone Keep were blocky and utilitarian, built up against one another along the rock walls of the natural rift. Most had square raincatchers on top. With good food storesor, if lucky, a Soulcastersuch a fortification could withstand a siege for years. He couldnt read the rank insignias, but he could recognize an officer when he saw one standing in a blood-red cloak with a group of honor guards. He had no mail, just a shiny bronze breastplate over leather, and was conferring with one of the scouts. Dalinar hurried up. Only then did he see that the mans eyes were dark brown. That gave Dalinar a shock of incredulity. Those around him treated the man like a brightlord. the Order of the Stonewards, my lord, the still-mounted scout was saying. And a large number of Windrunners. All on foot. But why? the darkeyed officer demanded. Why are Radiants coming here? They should be fighting the devils on the front lines!