said of most of the others. Hes one of the few Id trust the kings safety to. I wouldnt do the same, Father, I can tell you that. Dalinar fell silent for a moment. Come with me. He handed Adolin the saddle strap, then began to cross the plateau toward the pavilion. I want to show you something about Sadeas. Resigned, Adolin followed. They passed the lit pavilion. Inside, darkeyed men served food and drink while women sat and scribed messages or wrote accounts of the battle. The lighteyes spoke with one another in verbose, excited tones, complimenting the kings bravery. The men wore dark, masculine colors: maroon, navy, forest green, deep burnt orange. Dalinar approached Highprince Vamah, who stood outside the pavilion with a group of his own lighteyed attendants. He was dressed in a fashionable long brown coat that had slashes cut through it to expose the bright yellow silk lining. It was a subdued fashion, not as ostentatious as wearing silks on the outside. Adolin thought it looked nice. Vamah himself was a round-faced, balding man. The short hair that remained stuck straight up, and he had light grey eyes. He had a habit of squintingwhich he did as Dalinar and Adolin approached. What is this about? Adolin wondered. Brightlord, Dalinar said to Vamah. I have come to make certain your comfort has been seen to. My comfort would be best seen to if we could be on our way back. Vamah glared over at the setting sun, as if blaming it for some misdeed. He wasnt normally so foul-mooded. Im certain that my men are moving as quickly as they can, Dalinar said. It wouldnt be nearly as late if you hadnt slowed us so much on the way here, Vamah said. I like to be careful, Dalinar said. And, speaking of care, there is something Ive been meaning to talk to you about. Might my son and I speak to you alone for a moment? Vamah scowled, but let Dalinar lead him away from his attendants. Adolin followed, more and more baffled. The beast was a large one, Dalinar said to Vamah, nodding toward the fallen chasmfiend. The biggest Ive seen. I suppose. I hear youve had success on your recent plateau assaults, killing a few cocooned chasmfiends of your own. You are to be congratulated. Vamah shrugged. The ones we won were small. Nothing like that gemheart that Elhokar took today.