The shave suits you, a voice said. Kaladin turned to see Sigzil leaning against the wall of the barrack, just under the roofs overhang. Your face has strong lines. Square and firm, with a proud chin. We would call it a leaders face among my people. Im no lighteyes, Kaladin said, spitting to the side. You hate them so much. I hate their lies, Kaladin said. I hate it that I used to believe they were honorable. And would you cast them down? Sigzil asked, sounding curious. Rule in their place? No. This seemed to surprise Sigzil. To the side, Syl finally appeared, having finished frolicking in the winds of the highstorm. He always worriedjust a littlethat shed ride away with them and leave him. Have you no thirst to punish those who have treated you so? Sigzil asked. Oh, Im happy to punish them, Kaladin said. But I have no desire to take their place, nor do I wish to join them. Id join them in a heartbeat, Moash said, walking up behind. He folded his arms across his lean, well-muscled chest. If I were in charge, things would change. The lighteyes would work the mines and the fields. They would run bridges and die by Parshendi arrows. Wont happen, Kaladin said. But I wont blame you for trying. Sigzil nodded thoughtfully. Have either of you ever heard of the land of Babatharnam? No, Kaladin said, glancing toward the camp. The soldiers were moving about now. More than a few were washing too. That a funny name for a country, though. Sigzil sniffed. Personally, I always thought Alethkar sounded like a ridiculous name. I guess it depends on where you were raised. So why bring up Babab Moash said. Babatharnam, Sigzil said. I visited there once, with my master. They have very peculiar trees. The entire planttrunk and alllies down when a highstorm approaches, as if built on hinges. I was thrown in prison three times during our visit there. The Babath are quite particular about how you speak. My master was quite displeased at the amount he had to pay to free me. Of course, I think they were using any excuse to imprison a foreigner, as they knew my master had deep pockets. He smiled wistfully. One of those imprisonments was my fault. The women there, you see, have these patterns of veins that sit shallowly beneath their skin. Some visitors find it unnerving, but I found the