Dalinar was reminded of his most recent vision. The Radiant, his armor glowing with glyphs. Modern Shardplate didnt glow like that. Could his mind have fabricated that detail? Would it have? No time to consider that now, he thought. He discarded his uncertainties and worries, something hed learned to do during his first battles as a youth. A warrior needed to be focused. Adolins questions would still be waiting for him when he got back. For now, he couldnt afford self-doubt or uncertainty. It was time to be the Blackthorn. He stepped into the sabatons, and the straps tightened of their own accord, fitting around his boots. The greaves came next, going over his legs and knees, locking on to the sabatons. Shardplate wasnt like ordinary armor; there was no mesh of steel mail and no leather straps at the joints. Shardplate seams were made of smaller plates, interlocking, overlapping, incredibly intricate, leaving no vulnerable gaps. There was very little rubbing or chafing; each piece fit together perfectly, as if it had been crafted specifically for Dalinar. One always put the armor on from the feet upward. Shardplate was extremely heavy; without the enhanced strength it provided, no man would be able to fight in it. Dalinar stood still as the armor bearers affixed the cuisses over his thighs and locked them to the culet and faulds across his waist and lower back. A skirt made of small, interlocking plates came next, reaching down to just above the knees. Brightlord, Teleb said, stepping up to him. Have you given thought to my suggestion about the bridges? You know how I feel about man-carried bridges, Teleb, Dalinar said as the armor bearers locked his breastplate into place, then worked on the rerebraces and vambraces for his arms. Already, he could feel the strength of the Plate surging through him. We wouldnt have to use the smaller bridges for the assault, Teleb said. Just for getting to the contested plateau. Wed still have to bring the chull-pulled bridges to get across that last chasm, Dalinar said. Im not convinced that bridge crews would move us any more quickly. Not when we have to wait for those animals. Teleb sighed. Dalinar reconsidered. A good officer was one who accepted orders and fulfilled them, even when he disagreed. But the mark of a great officer was that he also tried to innovate and offer appropriate suggestions. You may recruit and train a single bridge crew, Dalinar said. We shall see. In these races, even a few minutes can be meaningful. Teleb smiled. Thank you, sir.