devotaries, the various religious congregations that proper Vorin people joined. Improper quips would not serve Shallan well here. She would have to be proper. Wardship to a woman of great renown was the best way to be schooled in the feminine arts: music, painting, writing, logic, and science. It was much like how a young man would train in the honor guard of a brightlord he respected. Shallan had originally written to Jasnah requesting a wardship in desperation; she hadnt actually expected the woman to reply in the affirmative. When she hadvia a letter commanding Shallan to attend her in Dumadari in two weeksShallan had been shocked. Shed been chasing the woman ever since. Jasnah was a heretic. Would she demand that Shallan renounce her faith? She doubted she could do such a thing. Vorin teachings regarding ones Glory and Calling had been one of her few refuges during the difficult days, when her father had been at his worst. They turned into a narrower hallway, entering corridors increasingly far from the main cavern. Finally, the master-servant stopped at a corner and gestured for Shallan to continue. There were voices coming from the corridor to the right. Shallan hesitated. Sometimes, she wondered how it had come to this. She was the quiet one, the timid one, the youngest of five siblings and the only girl. Sheltered, protected all her life. And now the hopes of her entire house rested on her shoulders. Their father was dead. And it was vital that remain a secret. She didnt like to think of that dayshe all but blocked it from her mind, and trained herself to think of other things. But the effects of his loss could not be ignored. He had made many promisessome business deals, some bribes, some of the latter disguised as the former. House Davar owed great amounts of money to a great number of people, and without her father to keep them all appeased, the creditors would soon begin making demands. There was nobody to turn to. Her family, mostly because of her father, was loathed even by its allies. Highprince Valamthe brightlord to whom her family gave fealtywas ailing, and no longer offered them the protection he once had. When it became known that her father was dead and her family bankrupt, that would be the end of House Davar. Theyd be consumed and subjugated to another house. Theyd be worked to the bone as punishmentin fact, they might even face assassination by disgruntled creditors. Preventing that depended on Shallan, and the first step came with Jasnah Kholin.