down from the sturdy wagon. Wrong? Syl stepped up to the lip of the wagon, watching him. I thought that seeing me rescue those three might give them hope. But theyre still indifferent. Some watched you run earlier, Syl said, when you were practicing with the plank. They watched, Kaladin said. But they dont care about helping the wounded. Nobody besides Rock, that isand hes only doing it because he has a debt to me. Even Teft wasnt willing to share his food. Theyre selfish. No. I dont think that word can apply to them. He lifted a stone, struggling to explain how he felt. When I was a slavewell, Im still a slave. But during the worst parts, when my masters were trying to beat out of me the ability to resist, I was like these men. I didnt care enough to be selfish. I was like an animal. I just did what I did without thinking. Syl frowned. Little wonderKaladin himself didnt understand what he was saying. Yet, as he spoke, he began to work out what he meant. Ive shown them that we can survive, but that doesnt mean anything. If those lives arent worth living, then they arent ever going to care. Its like Im offering them piles of spheres, but not giving them anything to spend their wealth on. I guess, Syl said. But what can you do? He looked back across the plain of rock, toward the warcamp. The smoke of the armys many cookfires rose from the craters. I dont know. But I think were going to need a lot more reeds. That night, Kaladin, Teft, and Rock walked the makeshift streets of Sadeass warcamp. Nomonthe middle moonshone with his pale, blue-white light. Oil lanterns hung in front of buildings, indicating taverns or brothels. Spheres could provide more consistent, renewable light, but you could buy a bundle of candles or a pouch of oil for a single sphere. In the short run, it was often cheaper to do that, particularly if you were hanging your lights in a place they could be stolen. Sadeas didnt enforce a curfew, but Kaladin had learned that a lone bridgeman had best remain in the lumberyard at night. Half-drunken soldiers in stained uniforms sauntered past, whispering in the ears of whores or boasting to their friends. They called insults at the bridgemen, laughing riotously. The streets felt dark, even with the lanterns and the moonlight, and the haphazard