Sigzilwho was pulling the boots off a line of corpsesgave Kaladin a straight-lipped glance that seemed to say, This is your fault. He didnt like that others had discovered he was a Worldsinger. Why dont you give us a tale? Maps said, setting down his armload. Help us pass the time. I am not a foolish jester or storyteller, Sigzil said, yanking off a boot. I do not give tales. I spread knowledge of cultures, peoples, thoughts, and dreams. I bring peace through understanding. It is the holy charge my order received from the Heralds themselves. Well why not start spreading then? Maps said, standing and wiping his hands on his trousers. Sigzil signed audibly. Very well. What is it you wish to hear about? I dont know. Something interesting. Tell us about Brightking Alazansi and the hundred-ship fleet, Leyten called. I am not a storyteller! Sigzil repeated. I speak of nations and peoples, not tavern stories. I Is there a place where people live in gouges in the ground? Kaladin said. A city built in an enormous complex of lines, all set into the rock as if carved there? Sesemalex Dar, Sigzil said, nodding, pulling off another boot. Yes, it is the capital of the kingdom of Emul, and is one of the most ancient cities in the world. It is said that the cityand, indeed, the kingdomwere named by Jezrien himself. Jezrien? Malop said, standing and scratching his head. Whos that? Malop was a thick-haired fellow with a bushy black beard and a glyphward tattoo on each hand. He also wasnt the brightest sphere in the goblet, so to speak. You call him the Stormfather, here in Alethkar, Sigzil said. Or JezerezehElin. He was king of the Heralds. Master of the storms, bringer of water and life, known for his fury and his temper, but also for his mercy. Oh, Malop said. Tell me more of the city, Kaladin said. Sesemalex Dar. It is, indeed, built in giant troughs. The pattern is quite amazing. It protects against highstorms, as each trough has a lip at the side, keeping water from streaming in off the stone plain around it. That, mixed with a drainage system of cracks, protects the city from flooding. The people there are known for their expert crem pottery; the city is a major waypoint in the southwest. The Emuli are a certain tribe of the Askarki people,