rounding the army column and hustling to reach the next chasm. In the distance behind, a second armyone in bluewas following them, crossing using some of Sadeass other bridge crews. It looked like Dalinar Kholin had given up his bulky mechanical bridges, and was now using Sadeass own bridge crews to cross. So much for his honor and not sacrificing bridgeman lives. In his pouch, Kaladin carried a large number of infused spheres, obtained from the moneychangers in exchange for a greater quantity of dun spheres. He hated taking that loss, but he needed the Stormlight. They reached the next chasm quickly. It would be the next-to-last one, according to the word hed gotten from Matal, Hashals husband. The soldiers began checking their armor, stretching, anticipationspren rising in the air like small streamers. The bridgemen set their bridge and stepped back. Kaladin noted Lopen and silent Dabbid approaching with their stretcher, waterskins and bandages inside. Lopen had hitched the stretcher to a hook at his waist, making up for his missing arm. The two moved among the members of Bridge Four, giving them water. As he passed Kaladin, Lopen nodded toward the large bulge at the stretchers center. The armor. When do you want it? Lopen asked softly, lowering the litter, then handing Kaladin a waterskin. Right before we run the assault, Kaladin replied. You did well, Lopen. Lopen winked. A one-armed Herdazian is still twice as useful as a no- brained Alethi. Plus, so long as Ive got one hand, I can still do this. He covertly made a rude gesture toward the marching soldiers. Kaladin smiled, but was growing too nervous to feel mirth. It had been a long time since hed gotten jitters going into a battle. He thought Tukks had beaten that out of him years ago. Hey, a sudden voice called, I need some of that. Kaladin spun to see a soldier walking over. He was exactly the type of man Kaladin had known to avoid back in Amarams army. Darkeyed but of modest rank, he was naturally large, and had probably gotten promoted by sheer virtue of size. His armor was well maintained but the uniform beneath was stained and wrinkled, and he kept the sleeves rolled up, exposing hairy arms. At first, Kaladin assumed that the man had seen Lopens gesture. But the man didnt seem mad. He shoved Kaladin aside, then pulled the waterskin away from Lopen. Nearby, the soldiers waiting to cross had noticed. Their own water crews were much slower, and more than a few of the waiting men eyed Lopen and his waterskins. It would set a terrible precedent to let the soldiers take their waterbut that was a tiny problem compared with the greater one. If those soldiers swarmed