And, since hed run out in front, many other bridgemen had gotten a good view of how hed used the bridge as a shield. That had led them to emulate Bridge Four. Each of the crews had ended up running at a different speed, and the Alethi archers hadnt known where to focus their volleys to soften the Parshendi for the bridge landings. Stormfather! Ive just cost Sadeas this battle. There would be repercussions. The bridgemen had been forgotten while the generals and captains scrambled to revise their battle plans. But once this was over, they would come for him. Or maybe it would happen sooner. Gaz and Lamaril, with a group of reserve spearmen, were marching toward Bridge Four. Rock stepped up beside Kaladin on one side, a nervous Teft on the other, holding a stone in his hands. The bridgemen behind Kaladin began to mutter. Stand down, Kaladin said softly to Rock and Teft. But, Kaladin! Teft said. They Stand down. Gather the bridgemen. Get them back to the lumberyard safely, if you can. If any of us escape this disaster. When Rock and Teft didnt back away, Kaladin stepped forward. The battle still raged on the Tower; Sadeass groupled by the Shardbearer himselfhad managed to claim a small section of ground and were holding it doggedly. Corpses piled up on both sides. It wouldnt be enough. Rock and Teft moved up beside Kaladin again, but he stared them down, forcing them back. Then he turned to Gaz and Lamaril. Ill point out that Gaz told me to do this, he thought. He suggested I use a side carry on a bridge assault. But no. There were no witnesses. It would be his word against Gazs. That wouldnt workplus, that argument would leave Gaz and Lamaril with good reason to see Kaladin dead immediately, before he could speak to their superiors. Kaladin needed to do something else. Do you have any idea what youve done? Gaz sputtered as he grew near. Ive upended the armys strategy, Kaladin said, throwing the entire assault force into chaos. Youve come to punish me so that when your superiors come screaming to you for what happened, you can at least show that you acted quickly to deal with the one responsible. Gaz paused, Lamaril and the spearmen stopping around him. The bridge sergeant looked surprised. If its worth anything, Kaladin said grimly, I didnt know this would happen. I was just trying to survive. Bridgemen arent supposed to survive, Lamaril said curtly. He waved to a