theyd found the weapons? Is it his death? Dalinar wondered. Is that the secret Jasnahs looking for? Shed never shown Elhokars dedication to vengeance, but she thought differently from her brother. Revenge wouldnt drive her. But questions . Yes, questions would. One more thing, Uncle, Danlan read. Then I can go back to digging through this labyrinth of a library. At times, I feel like a cairn robber, sifting through the bones of those long dead. Regardless. The Parshendi, you once mentioned how quickly they seemed to learn our language. Yes, Dalinar said. In a matter of days, we were speaking and communicating quite well. Remarkable. Who would have thought that parshmen, of all people, had the wit for such a marvel? Most hed known didnt do much speaking at all. What were the first things they spoke to you about? Danlan said. The very first questions they asked? Can you remember? Dalinar closed his eyes, remembering days with the Parshendi camped just across the river from them. Gavilar had become fascinated by them. They wanted to see our maps. Did they mention the Voidbringers? Voidbringers? Not that I recall. Why? Id rather not say right now. However, I want to show you something. Have your scribe get out a new sheet of paper. Danlan affixed a new page to the writing board. She put the pen to the corner and let go. It rose and began to scratch back and forth in quick, bold strokes. It was a drawing. Dalinar stood up and stepped closer, and Adolin crowded near. Reed and ink wasnt the best medium, and drawing across spans wasnt precise. The pen leaked tiny globs of ink in places it wouldnt have on the other side, and though the inkwell was in the exact same placeallowing Jasnah to re-ink both her reed and Dalinars at the same timehis reed sometimes ran out before the one on the other side. Still, the picture was marvelous. This isnt Jasnah , Dalinar realized. Whoever was doing the drawing was far, far more talented than his niece. The picture resolved into a depiction of a tall shadow looming over some buildings. Hints of carapace and claws showed in the thin ink lines, and shadows were made by drawing finer lines close together. Danlan set it aside, getting out a third sheet of paper. Dalinar held the drawing up, Adolin at his side. The nightmarish beast in the lines and shadows was faintly familiar. Like Its a chasmfiend, Adolin said, pointing. Its distortedfar more