some angry god watching me, not some spren playing tricks, not some twist of fate. Its me. I chose to follow Tien. I chose to charge the Shardbearer and save Amaram. I chose to escape the slave pits. And now, I choose to try to rescue these men, though I know I will probably fail. The Parshendi loosed their arrows, and Kaladin felt an exaltation. Tiredness evaporated, fatigue fled. He wasnt fighting for Sadeas. He wasnt working to line someones pockets. He was fighting to protect. The arrows zipped at him and he swung his shield in an arc, spraying them away. Others came, shooting this way and that, seeking his flesh. He stayed just ahead of them, leaping as they shot for his thighs, turning as they shot for his shoulders, raising his shield when they shot for his face. It wasnt easy, and more than a few arrows got close to him, scoring his breastplate or shin guards. But none hit. He was doing it. He was Something was wrong. He spun between two arrows, confused. Kaladin! Syl said, hovering nearby, back to her smaller form. There! She pointed toward the other staging plateau, the one nearby that Dalinar had used for his assault. A large contingent of Parshendi had jumped across to that plateau and were kneeling down, raising bows. Pointed not at him, but right at Bridge Fours unshielded flank. No! Kaladin screamed, Stormlight escaping from his mouth in a cloud. He turned and ran back across the rocky plateau toward the bridge crew. Arrows launched at him from behind. One took his backplate square on, but skidded aside. Another hit his helm. He leaped over a rocky rift, dashing with all the speed his Stormlight could lend him. The Parshendi at the side were drawing. There were at least fifty of them. He was going to be too late. He was going to Bridge Four! he bellowed. Side carry right! They hadnt practiced that maneuver in weeks, but their training was manifest as they obeyed without question, dropping the bridge to their side just as the archers loosed. The flight of arrows hit the bridges deck, bristling across the wood. Kaladin let out a relieved breath, reaching the bridge team, who had slowed to carry the bridge on the side. Kaladin! Rock said, pointing. Kaladin spun. The archers behind, on the Tower, were drawing for a large volley. The bridge crew was exposed. The archers loosed. He yelled again, screaming out, Stormlight infusing the air around him as he