bridgemen make? Two clearmarks a day, Gaz said, scowling at him and rubbing his neck. So a slave would make half that. One diamond mark. A pittance, but Kaladin would need it. Hed also need to keep Gaz in line. Ill start taking my wages, Kaladin said, but you get to keep one mark in five. Gaz started, glancing at him in the dim, overcast light. For your efforts, Kaladin said. For what efforts? Kaladin stepped up to him. Your efforts in staying the Damnation out of my way. Understood? Gaz nodded again. Kaladin walked away. He hated to waste money on a bribe, but Gaz needed a consistent, repetitive reminder of why he should avoid getting Kaladin killed. One mark every five days wasnt much of a reminder but for a man who was willing to risk going out in the middle of a highstorm to protect his spheres, it might be enough. Kaladin walked back to Bridge Fours small barrack, pulling open the thick wooden door. The men huddled inside, just as hed left them. But something had changed. Had they always looked that pathetic? Yes. They had. Kaladin was the one who had changed, not they. He felt a strange dislocation, as if hed allowed himself to forgetif only in partthe last nine months. He reached back across time, studying the man he had been. The man whod still fought, and fought well. He couldnt be that man againhe couldnt erase the scarsbut he could learn from that man, as a new squadleader learned from the victorious generals of the past. Kaladin Stormblessed was dead, but Kaladin Bridgeman was of the same blood. A descendant with potential. Kaladin walked to the first huddled figure. The man wasnt sleepingwho could sleep through a highstorm? The man cringed as Kaladin knelt beside him. Whats your name? Kaladin asked, Syl flitting down and studying the mans face. He wouldnt be able to see her. The man was older, with drooping cheeks, brown eyes, and close-cropped, white-salted hair. His beard was short and he didnt have a slave mark. Your name? Kaladin repeated firmly. Storm off, the man said, rolling over. Kaladin hesitated, then leaned in, speaking in a low voice. Look, friend. You can either tell me your name, or Ill keep pestering you. Continue refusing, and Ill tow you out into that storm and hang you over the chasm by one leg until you tell me. The man glanced back over his shoulder. Kaladin nodded slowly, holding