She climbed down from the stepladder, patting his shoulder. Yes, I do, and Im sorry to make light of it. But you put yourself in a difficult position. You want friends, but do you really want to act like the other boys? Give up your studies so you can slave in the fields? Grow old before your time, weathered and furrowed by the sun? Kal didnt reply. The things that others have always seem better than what you have, his mother said. Bring the stepladder. Kal followed dutifully, rounding the town hall to the other side, then putting down the ladder so his mother could climb up to begin work again. The others think Father stole those spheres. Kal shoved his hands in his pockets. They think he wrote out that order from Brightlord Wistiow and had the old man sign it when he didnt know what he was doing. His mother was silent. I hate their lies and gossip, Kal said. I hate them for making up things about us. Dont hate them, Kal. Theyre good people. In this case, theyre just repeating what theyve heard. She glanced at the citylords manor, distant upon a hill above the town. Every time Kal saw it, he felt like he should go up and talk to Laral. But the last few times hed tried, he hadnt been allowed to see her. Now that her father was dead, her nurse oversaw her time, and the woman didnt think mingling with boys from the town was appropriate. The nurses husband, Miliv, had been Brightlord Wistiows head steward. If there was a source of bad rumors about Kals family, it probably came from him. He never had liked Kals father. Well, Miliv wouldnt matter soon. A new citylord was expected to arrive any day. Mother, Kal said, those spheres are just sitting there doing nothing but glowing. Cant we spend some to keep you from having to come out here and work? I like working, she said, scraping away again. It clears the head. Didnt you just tell me that I wouldnt like having to labor? My face furrowed before its time, or something poetic like that? She hesitated, then laughed. Clever boy. Cold boy, he grumbled, shivering. I work because I want to. We cant spend those spherestheyre for your educationand so my working is better than forcing your father to charge for his healings. Maybe theyd respect us more if we did charge. Oh, they respect us. No, I dont think that is the problem. She looked