Dalinar snorted. Well, youve shown me something today, Sadeas shown it to me by the very act of trying to remove me. And what was that? Sadeas asked, amused. Youve shown me that Im still a threat. The highprinces continued their low-pitched conversation. Kaladin stood to the side of Dalinars soldiers, exhausted, with the members of Bridge Four. Sadeas spared a glance for them. Matal stood in the crowd, and had been watching Kaladins team the entire time, red-faced. Matal probably knew that he would be punished as Lamaril had been. They should have learned. They should have killed Kaladin at the start. They tried, he thought. They failed. He didnt know what had happened to him, what had gone on with Syl and the words in his head. It seemed that Stormlight worked better for him now. It had been more potent, more powerful. But now it was gone, and he was so tired. Drained. Hed pushed himself, and Bridge Four, too far. Too hard. Perhaps he and the others should have gone to Kholins camp. But Teft was right; they needed to see this through. He promised, Kaladin thought. He promised he would free us from Sadeas. And yet, where had the promises of lighteyes gotten him in the past? The highprinces broke off their conference, separating, stepping back from one another. Well, Sadeas said loudly, your men are obviously tired, Dalinar. We can speak later about what went wrong, though I think it is safe to assume that our alliance has proven unfeasible. Unfeasible, Dalinar said. A kind way of putting it. He nodded toward the bridgemen. I will take these bridgemen with me to my camp. Im afraid I cannot part with them. Kaladins heart sank. Surely they arent worth much to you, Dalinar said. Name your price. Im not looking to sell. I will pay sixty emerald broams per man, Dalinar said. That drew gasps from the watching soldiers on both sides. It was easily twenty times the price of a good slave. Not for a thousand each, Dalinar, Sadeas said. Kaladin could see the deaths of his bridgemen in those eyes. Take your soldiers and go. Leave my