men like himpetty bullies with just enough power to be annoying. Gaz is a thug, but I dont think hes a murderer. Besides, in his opinion, he doesnt have to hurt me; he just has to wait until I get killed on a bridge run. Still, best to be safe. Watch over me, if you would. Wake me if he tries something. Sure. But what if he just goes to more important men? Tells them to execute you? Kaladin grimaced. Then theres nothing I can do. But I dont think hed do that. It would make him look weak before his superiors. Besides, beheading was reserved for bridgemen who wouldnt run at the Parshendi. So long as he ran, he wouldnt be executed. In fact, the army leaders seemed hesitant to do much to punish bridgemen at all. One man had committed murder while Kaladin had been a bridgeman, and theyd strung the fool up in a highstorm. But other than that, all Kaladin had seen was a few men get their wages garnished for brawling, and a couple get whipped for being too slow during the early part of a bridge run. Minimal punishments. The leaders of this army understood. The lives of bridgemen were as close to hopeless as possible; shove them down too much further, and the bridgemen might just stop caring and let themselves be killed. Unfortunately, that also meant that there wouldnt be much Kaladin could do to punish his own crew, even if hed had that authority. He had to motivate them in another way. He crossed the lumberyard to where the carpenters were constructing new bridges. After some searching, Kaladin found what he wanted a thick plank waiting to be fitted into a new portable bridge. A handhold for a bridgeman had been affixed to one side. Can I borrow this? Kaladin asked a passing carpenter. The man raised a hand to scratch a sawdust-powdered head. Borrow it? Ill stay right here in the lumberyard, Kaladin explained, lifting the board and putting it on his shoulder. It was heavier than hed expected, and he was thankful for the padded leather vest. Well need it eventually the carpenter said, but didnt offer enough of an objection to stop Kaladin from walking away with the plank. He chose a level stretch of stone directly in front of the barracks. Then he began to trot from one end of the lumberyard to the other, carrying the board on his shoulder, feeling the heat of the rising sun on his skin. He went back and forth, back and forth. He practiced running, walking, and jogging. He practiced carrying the plank on his shoulder, then carrying it up high, arms stretched out. He worked himself ragged. In fact, he felt close to collapsing several times, but every time he did, he found a reserve of strength from somewhere. So he kept moving, teeth gritted against the pain and fatigue, counting his steps to