been different from the others, but a failure it was nonetheless. If theres no curse or bad luck, no god above being angry at meI have to live with knowing that with a little more eff orta little more practice or skillI could have saved them. Syl frowned more deeply. Kaladin, you need to get over this. Those things arent your fault. Thats what my father always used to say. He smiled faintly. Overcome your guilt, Kaladin. Care, but not too much. Take responsibility, but dont blame yourself. Protect, save, helpbut know when to give up. Theyre such precarious ledges to walk. How do I do it? I dont know. I dont know any of this, Kaladin. But youre ripping yourself apart. Inside and out. Kaladin stared at the sky above. It was wondrous. I was a storm, Syl. The Parshendi couldnt touch me. The arrows were nothing. Youre too new to this. You pushed yourself too hard. Save them, Kaladin whispered. Do the impossible, Kaladin. But dont push yourself too hard. But also dont feel guilty if you fail. Precarious ledges, Syl. So narrow Some of his men returned with a wounded man, a square-faced Thaylen fellow with an arrow in the shoulder. Kaladin went to work. His hands were still shaking slightly, but not nearly as badly as they had been. The bridgemen clustered around, watching. Hed started training Rock, Drehy, and Skar already, but with all of them watching, Kaladin found himself explaining. If you put pressure here, you can slow the blood flow. This isnt too dangerous a wound, though it probably doesnt feel too goodthe patient grimaced his agreementand the real problem will come from infection. Wash the wound to make sure there arent any slivers of wood or bits of metal left, then sew it. The muscles and skin of the shoulder here are going to get worked, so you need a strong thread to hold the wound together. Now Kaladin, Lopen said, sounding worried. Wha? Kaladin said, distracted, still working. Kaladin! Lopen had called him by his name, rather than saying gancho . Kaladin stood up, turning to see the short Herdazian man standing at the back of the crowd, pointing at the chasm. The battle had moved farther north, but a group of Parshendi had punched through Sadeass line. They had bows. Kaladin watched, stunned, as the group of Parshendi fell into formation and nocked. Fifty arrows, all pointed at Kaladins crew. The Parshendi didnt seem to care that they were exposing themselves to attack from behind. They seemed