flight came, and he brought his shield up, worried that he was going to be too slow. However, the arrows changed course, arcing toward his shield, slamming into it. Drawn to it. Im pulling them to it! He remembered dozens of bridge runs, with arrows slamming into the wood near where his hands had clung to the support bars. Always just missing him. How long have I been doing this? Kaladin thought. How many arrows did I draw to the bridge, pulling them away from me? He didnt have time to think about that. He kept moving, dodging. He felt arrows whish through the air, heard them zip, felt the splinters as they hit stone or shield and broke. Hed hoped that he would distract some of the Parshendi from firing on his men, but hed had no idea how strong a reaction hed get. Part of him exulted in the thrill of ducking, dodging, and blocking the hail of arrows. He started to slow, however. He tried to suck in Stormlight, but none came. His spheres were drained. He panicked, still dodging, but then the arrowfalls began to slacken. With a start, Kaladin realized that the bridge crews had parted around him, leaving a space for him to keep dodging while they passed him and set their burdens. Bridge Four was in place, cavalry charging across to attack the archers. Despite that, some of the Parshendi continued to fire on Kaladin, enraged. The soldiers cut these Parshendi down easily, sweeping the ground of them and making room for Sadeass foot soldiers. Kaladin lowered his shield. It bristled with arrows. He barely had time to take a fresh breath of air as the bridgemen reached him, calling out with joy, nearly tackling him in their excitement. You fool! Moash said. You storming fool! What was that? What were you thinking? Was incredible, Rock said. You should be dead! Sigzil said, though his normally stern face was split by a smile. Stormfather, Moash added, pulling an arrow from Kaladins vest at the shoulder. Look at these. Kaladin looked down, shocked to find a dozen arrow holes in the sides of his vest and shirt where hed narrowly avoided being hit. Three arrows stuck from the leather. Stormblessed, Skar said. Thats all there is too it. Kaladin shrugged off their praise, his heart still pounding. He was numb. Amazed that hed survived, cold from the Stormlight hed consumed, exhausted as if hed run a rigorous obstacle course. He looked to Teft, raising an eyebrow,