tell me about my homeland. Homeland? Moash said to the younger man. Youre from Alethkar. Sigzil said these violet eyes of mine arent native to Alethkar. He thinks I must have Veden blood in me. Your eyes arent violet, Moash said. Sure they are, Dunny said. You can see it in bright sunlight. Theyre just really dark. Ha! Rock said. If you are from Vedenar, we are cousins! The Peaks are near Vedenar. Sometimes the people there have good red hair, like us! Be glad that someone didnt mistake your eyes for red, Dunny, Kaladin said. Moash, Rock, go gather your subsquads and pass the word to Teft and Skar. I want the men oiling their vests and sandals against the humidity. The men sighed, but did as ordered. The army provided the oil. While the bridgemen were expendable, good hogshide and metal for buckles were not cheap. As the men gathered to work, the sun broke through the clouds. The warmth of the light felt good on Kaladins rain-wet skin. There was something refreshing about the chill of a highstorm followed by the sun. Tiny rockbud polyps on the side of the building opened, drinking in the wet air. Those would have to be scraped free. Rockbuds would eat away the stone of the walls, creating pockmarks and cracks. The buds were a deep crimson. It was Chachel, third day of the week. The slave markets would show new wares. That would mean new bridgemen. Kaladins crew was in serious danger. Yake had caught an arrow in the arm during their last run, and Delp had caught one in the neck. Thered been nothing Kaladin could do for him, and with Yake wounded, Kaladins team was down to twenty-eight bridge-capable members. Sure enough, about an hour into their morning activitiescaring for equipment, oiling the bridge, Lopen and Dabbid running to fetch their morning gruel pot and bring it back to the lumberyardKaladin caught sight of soldiers leading a line of dirty, shuffling men toward the lumberyard. Kaladin gestured to Teft, and the two of them marched up to meet Gaz. Afore you yell at me, Gaz said as Kaladin arrived, understand that I cant change anything here. The slaves were bunched up, watched over by a pair of soldiers in wrinkled green coats. Youre bridge sergeant, Kaladin said. Teft stepped up beside him. He hadnt gotten a shave, though hed begun keeping his short, grey beard neatly trimmed. Yeah, Gaz said, but I dont make assignments any more. Brightness