stance. A figure stood on the far side of the room, shrouded in the darkness. Who are you? Szeth demanded, his Stormlight aura growing brighter once he stopped holding his breath. Are you satisfied with this, Szeth-son-Neturo? the voice asked. It was male and deep. What was that accent? The man wasnt Veden. Alethi, perhaps? Are you satisfied with trivial crimes? Killing over meaningless turf in backwater mining villages? Szeth didnt reply. He scanned the room, looking for motion in the other shadows. None seemed to be hiding anyone. Ive watched you, the voice said. Youve been sent to intimidate shopkeepers. Youve killed footpads so unimportant even the authorities ignore them. Youve been shown off to impress whores, as if they were high lighteyed ladies. What a waste. I do as my master demands. You are squandered, the voice said. You are not meant for petty extortions and murders. Using you like this, its like hitching a Ryshadium stallion to a run-down market wagon. Its like using a Shardblade to slice vegetables, or like using the finest parchment as kindling for a washwater fire. It is a crime . You are a work of art, Szeth-son-Neturo, a god. And each day Makkek throws dung at you. Who are you? Szeth repeated. An admirer of the arts. Do not call me by my fathers name, Szeth said. He should not be sullied by association with me. The sphere on the wall finally ran out of Stormlight, dropping to the floor, the drapery muffling its fall. Very well, the figure said. But do you not rebel against this frivolous use of your skills? Were you not meant for greatness? There is no greatness in killing, Szeth said. You speak like a kukori . Great men create food and clothing. He who adds is to be revered. I am he who takes away. At least in the killing of men such as these I can pretend to be doing a service. This from the man who nearly toppled one of the greatest kingdoms in Roshar? This from the man who committed one of the most heinous slaughters in Roshar, Szeth corrected. The figure snorted. What you did was a mere breeze compared to the storm of slaughter Shardbearers wreak on a battlefield each day. And those are breezes compared to the tempests you are capable of. Szeth began to walk away.