them with contempt. Dalinars soldiers couldnt have felt easy about being surrounded by enemies once again, but they followed him onto the staging field. Sadeas stood ahead. The treacherous highprince waited with arms folded, still wearing his Shardplate, curly black hair blowing in the breeze. Someone had burned an enormous thath glyph on the stones here, and Sadeas stood at its center. Justice. There was something magnificently appropriate about Sadeas standing there, treading upon justice. Dalinar, Sadeas exclaimed, old friend! It appears that I overestimated the odds against you. I apologize for retreating when you were still in danger, but the safety of my men came first. Im certain you understand. Dalinar stopped a short distance from Sadeas. The two faced each other, collected armies tense. A cold breeze whipped at a canopy behind Sadeas. Of course, Dalinar said, his voice even. You did what you had to do. Sadeas relaxed visibly, though several of Dalinars soldiers muttered at that. Adolin silenced them with pointed glances. Dalinar turned, waving Adolin and his men backward. Navani gave him a raised eyebrow, but retreated with the others when he urged her. Dalinar looked back at Sadeas, and the manlooking curiouswaved his own attendants back. Dalinar walked up to the edge of the thath glyph, and Sadeas stepped forward until only inches separated them. They were matched in height. Standing this close, Dalinar thought he could see tensionand angerin Sadeass eyes. Dalinars survival had ruined months of planning. I need to know why, Dalinar asked, too quietly for any but Sadeas to hear. Because of my oath, old friend.  What?  Dalinar asked, hands forming fists. We swore something together, years ago. Sadeas sighed, losing his flippancy and speaking openly. Protect Elhokar. Protect this kingdom. Thats what I was doing! We had the same purpose. And we were fighting together, Sadeas. It was working . Yes, Sadeas said. But Im confident I can beat the Parshendi on my own now. Everything weve done together, I can manage by splitting my army into twoone to race on ahead, a larger force to follow. I had to take this chance to remove you. Dalinar, cant you see? Gavilar died because of his weakness. I wanted to attack the Parshendi from the start, conquer them. He insisted on a treaty, which led to his death. Now youre starting to act just like him. Those same ideas, the same ways of speaking. Through you they begin to infect Elhokar. He dresses like you. He talks of the Codes to me, and of how perhaps we should enforce them through all the warcamps. Hes beginning to think of