ACKNOWLEDGMENTS I finished the first draft of The Way of Kings in 2003, but I started working on pieces of the book back in the late 90s. Threads of this novel go back even further in my brain. No book of mine has spent longer simmering; Ive spent more than a decade building this novel. And so it should be no surprise that a lot of people have helped me with it. Its going to be impossible to mention them all; my memory simply isnt that good. However, there are some major players that I would like to thank most deeply. First comes my wife, Emily, to whom this book is dedicated. She gave greatly of herself to see the novel come to pass. That included not only reading and giving advice on the manuscript, but giving up her husband during long stretches of writing time. If you readers get a chance to meet her, some thanks might be in order. (She likes chocolate.) As always, my excellent editor and agentMoshe Feder and Joshua Bilmes worked quite hard on this novel. Moshe, by special note, doesnt get paid more when his authors turn in 400k-word monstrosities. But he edited the novel without a word of complaint; his help was invaluable in turning it into the novel you now hold. He also got F. Paul Wilson to check over the medical scenes, to their great benefit. Special thanks also go to Harriet McDougal, one of the greatest editors of our time, who gave us a read and line edit on this novel out of the goodness of her heart. Wheel of Time fans will know her as the person who discovered, edited, and then married Robert Jordan. She doesnt do much editing these days outside of the Wheel of Time, and so I feel very honored and humbled to have her input and help here. Alan Romanczuk, working with her, should also be thanked for facilitating this edit. At Tor Books, Paul Stevens has been a huge help. Hes been our in-house liaison for my books, and hes done an amazing job. Moshe and I are lucky to have his aid. Likewise, Irene Gallothe art directorhas been wonderfully helpful and patient in dealing with an intrusive author who wanted to do some crazy things with the artwork in his book. Many thanks to Irene, Justin Golenbock, Greg Collins, Karl Gold, Nathan Weaver, Heather Saunders, Meryl Gross, and the entire team at Tor Books. Dot Lin, who was my publicist up until this books release (and who is now working to put a few extra letters after her