Brightness Jasnahs room? Shallan demanded. Yes, Brightness, the woman said. Tidying up the desk, making the bed  Brightness Jasnah does not like people entering her room. The maids have been told not to clean in there. The king had promised that his maids were very carefully chosen, and there had never been issues of theft, but Jasnah still insisted that none enter her bedchamber. The woman paled. Im sorry, Brightness. I didnt hear! I wasnt told Hush, its all right, Shallan said. Youll want to go tell her what youve done. She always notices if her things were moved. It will be better for you if you go to her and explain. Y-Yes, Brightness. The woman bowed again. In fact, Shallan said, something occurring to her. You should go now. No point putting it off. The elderly maid sighed. Yes, of course, Brightness. She withdrew. A few seconds later, the outside door closed and locked. Shallan leapt up, pulling off the Soulcaster and stuffing it back in her safepouch. She hurried outside, heart thumping, the strange voice forgotten as she seized the opportunity to look into Jasnahs room. It was unlikely that Shallan would discover anything useful about the Soulcaster, but she couldnt pass up the chancenot with the maid to blame for moving things. She felt only a glimmer of guilt for this. Shed already stolen from Jasnah. Compared with that, poking through her room was nothing. The bedroom was larger than Shallans, though it still felt cramped because of the unavoidable lack of windows. Jasnahs bed, a four-poster monstrosity, took up half the space. The vanity was against the far wall, and beside it the dressing table from which Shallan had originally stolen the Soulcaster. Other than a dresser, the only other thing in the room was the desk, books piled high on the left side. Shallan never got a chance to look at Jasnahs notebooks. Might she, perhaps, have taken notes on the Soulcaster? Shallan sat at the desk, hurriedly pulling open the top drawer and poking through the brushpens, charcoal pencils, and sheets of paper. All were organized neatly, and the paper was blank. The bottom right drawer held ink and empty notebooks. The bottom left drawer had a small collection of reference books. That left the books on the top of the table. Jasnah would have the majority of her notebooks with her as she worked. Butyes, there were still a few here. Heart fluttering, Shallan gathered up the three thin volumes and set them before her.