Boys dreamed of the day theyd get one, never realizing how annoying they could be. Out for a stroll, Your Lordship? a voice said. Kaladin looked up to find Gaz huddled in a nearby hollow between two of the barracks. Why was he out in the rain? Ah. Gaz had fastened a small metal basket on the leeward wall of one of the barracks, and a soft glowing light came from within. He left his spheres out in the storm, then had come out early to retrieve them. It was a risk. Even a sheltered basket could get torn free. Some people believed that the shades of the Lost Radiants haunted the storms, stealing spheres. Perhaps that was true. But during his time in the army, Kaladin had known more than one man who had been wounded sneaking around during full storm, looking for spheres. No doubt the superstition was due to more worldly thieves. There were safer ways to infuse spheres. Moneychangers would exchange dun spheres for infused ones, or you could pay them to infuse yours in one of their safely guarded nests. What are you doing? Gaz demanded. The short, one-eyed man clutched the basket to his chest. Ill have you strung up if youve stolen anyones spheres. Kaladin turned away from him. Storm you! Ill have you strung up anyway! Dont think you can run away; there are still sentries. You Im going to the Honor Chasm, Kaladin said quietly. His voice would barely be audible over the storm. Gaz shut up. The Honor Chasm. He lowered his metal basket and made no further objections. There was a certain deference given to men who took that road. Kaladin continued to cross the courtyard. Lordling, Gaz called. Kaladin turned. Leave the sandals and vest, Gaz said. I dont want to have to send someone down to fetch them. Kaladin pulled the leather vest over his head and dropped it to the ground with a splash, then left the sandals in a puddle. That left him in a dirty shirt and stiff brown trousers, both taken off a dead man. Kaladin walked through the storm to the east side of the lumberyard. A low thundering rumbled from the west. The pathway down to the Shattered Plains was familiar to him now. Hed run this way a dozen times with the bridge crews.