sometimes. Kal stayed where he was, looking eastward. He wasnt sure how he felt. His father really wanted him to be a surgeon, but he wavered. It wasnt just because of the stories, the excitement and wonder of them. He felt that by being a soldier, he could change things. Really change them. A part of him dreamed of going to war, of protecting Alethkar, of fighting alongside heroic lighteyes. Of doing good someplace other than a little town that nobody important ever visited. He sat down. Sometimes he dreamed like that. Other times, he found it hard to care about anything. His dreary feelings were like a black eel, coiled inside of him. The snarlbrush out there survived the storms by growing together densely about the bases of the mighty markel trees. Their bark was coated with stone, their branches thick as a mans leg. But now the snarlbrush was dead. It hadnt survived. Pulling together hadnt been enough for it. Kaladin? a voice asked from behind him. He turned to find Tien. Tien was ten years old, two years Kals junior, though he looked much younger. While other kids called him a runt, Lirin said that Tien just hadnt hit his height yet. But, well, with those round, flushed cheeks and that slight build, Tien did look like a boy half his age. Kaladin, he said, eyes wide, hands cupped together. What are you looking at? Dead weeds, Kal said. Oh. Well, you need to see this. What is it? Tien opened his hands to reveal a small stone, weathered on all sides but with a jagged break on the bottom. Kal picked it up, looking it over. He couldnt see anything distinctive about it at all. In fact, it was dull. Its just a rock, Kal said. Not just a rock, Tien said, taking out his canteen. He wetted his thumb, then rubbed it on the flat side of the stone. The wetness darkened the stone, and made visible an array of white patterns in the rock. See? Tien asked, handing it back. The strata of the rock alternated white, brown, black. The pattern was remarkable. Of course, it was still just a rock. But for some reason, Kal found himself smiling. Thats nice, Tien. He moved to hand the rock back. Tien shook his head. I found it for you. To make you feel better. I It was just a stupid rock. Yet, inexplicably, Kal did feel better. Thanks. Hey, you know what? Ill bet theres a lurg or two hiding in these rocks somewhere. Want to see if we can find one? Yes, yes, yes! Tien said. He laughed and began moving down the rocks. Kal moved to follow, but paused, remembering something his father had said.