Well, Brightlord, Teshav said, Brightlord Adolin asked me to report the progress of the saddle girth investigation. Hes speaking with leatherworkers at this very moment, but so far, there is very little to say. Nobody witnessed anyone interfering with the saddle or His Majestys horse. Our spies say there are no whispers of anyone in the other warcamps bragging, and nobody in our camp has suddenly received large sums of money, so far as weve discovered. The grooms? Say they checked over the saddle, she said, but when pressed, they admit that they cant specifically remember checking the girth. She shook her head. Carrying a Shardbearer places great strain on both horse and saddle. If there were only some way to tame more Ryshadium. I think youll sooner tame the highstorms, Brightness. Well, this is good news, I suppose. Better for us all that this strap business turns out to be nothing. Now, there is another item I wish you to look into. It is my pleasure to serve, Brightlord. Highprince Aladar has begun to talk of taking a short vacation back to Alethkar. I want to know if hes serious. Yes, Brightlord. Teshav nodded. Would that be a problem? Im honestly not sure. He didnt trust the highprinces, but at least with them all here, he could watch them. If one of them returned to Alethkar, the man could scheme unchecked. Of course, even brief visits might help stabilize their homeland. Which was more important? Stability or the ability to watch over the others? Blood of my fathers, he thought. I wasnt made for this politicking and scheming. I was made to wield a sword and ride down enemies. Hed do what needed to be done anyway. I believe you said you had information on the kings accounts, Teshav? Indeed, she said as they continued the short hike. You were correct to have me look into the ledgers, as it appears that three of the highprinces Thanadal, Hatham, and Vamahare well behind in their payments. Other than yourself, only Highprince Sadeas has actually paid ahead on what is owed, as the tenets of war require. Dalinar nodded. The longer this war stretches, the more comfortable the highprinces are getting. Theyre starting to question. Why pay high war time rates for Soulcasting? Why not move farmers out here and start growing their own food? Pardon, Brightlord, Teshav said as they turned around a switchback. Her attendant scribe walked behind, several ledgers clipped to boards carried in a satchel. But do we really wish to discourage that? A second stream of supplies