cobblestones. The guards didnt respond to him. They didnt seem to know what to make of a black-clad, lighteyed man who entered the city just before evening fell, then sat on boxes beside the gates playing music. Well? Wit asked, pausing the music. What do you think? If a man or woman were to have a talent, which would be the most revered, best regarded, considered of the most worth? Er music? one of the men finally said. Yes, a common answer, Wit said, plucking at a few low notes. I once asked this question of some very wise scholars. What do men consider the most valuable of talents? One mentioned artistic ability, as you so keenly guessed. Another chose great intellect. The final chose the talent to invent, the ability to design and create great devices. He didnt play a specific tune on the enthir, just plucks here and there, an occasional scale or fifth. Like chitchat in string form. Aesthetic genius, Wit said, invention, acumen, creativity. Noble ideals indeed. Most men would pick one of those, if given the choice, and name them the greatest of talents. He plucked a string. What beautiful liars we are. The guards glanced at each other; the torches burning in brackets on the wall painted them with orange light. You think Im a cynic, Wit said. You think Im going to tell you that men claim to value these ideals, but secretly prefer base talents. The ability to gather coin or to charm women. Well, I am a cynic, but in this case, I actually think those scholars were honest. Their answers speak for the souls of men. In our hearts, we want to believe inand would choose great accomplishment and virtue. Thats why our lies, particularly to ourselves, are so beautiful. He began to play a real song. A simple melody at first, soft, subdued. A song for a silent night when the entire world changed. One of the soldiers cleared his throat. So what is the most valuable talent a man can have? He sounded genuinely curious. I havent the faintest idea, Wit said. Fortunately, that wasnt the question. I didnt ask what was most valuable, I asked what men value most . The difference between those questions is both tiny and as vast as the world itself all at once. He kept plucking his song. One did not strum an enthir. It just wasnt done, at least not by people with any sense of propriety. In this, Wit said, as in all things, our actions give us away. If an artist creates a work of powerful beautyusing new and innovative techniquesshe will be lauded as a master, and will launch a new movement in aesthetics. Yet what if another, working independently with that exact level of skill, were to