Formed and led by the Heralds. Shallan frowned, counting off rows of shelves. She stopped at the correct one, handed her lantern to Kabsal, then walked down the aisle and plucked the biography off the shelf. Kabsal followed her, holding up the lanterns. Theres more to this, Shallan said. Otherwise, Jasnah wouldnt be digging so hard. I can tell you why shes doing it, he said. Shallan glanced at him. Dont you see? he said. Shes trying to prove that the Voidbringers werent real. She wants to demonstrate that this was all a fabrication of the Radiants. He stepped forward and turned to face her, the lanternlight rebounding from the books to either side, making his face pale. She wants to prove once and for all that the devotariesand Vorinismare a gigantic fraud. Thats what this is all about. Maybe, Shallan said thoughtfully. It did seem to fit. What better goal for an avowed heretic? Undermining foolish beliefs and disproving religion? It explained why Jasnah would study something as seemingly inconsequential as the Voidbringers. Find the right evidence in the historical records, and Jasnah might well be able to prove herself right. Havent we been scourged enough? Kabsal said, eyes angry. The ardents are no threat to her. Were not a threat to anyone these days. We cant own propertyDamnation, were property ourselves . We dance to the whims of the citylords and warlords, afraid to tell them the truths of their sins for fear of retribution. Were whitespines without tusks or claws, expected to sit at our masters feet and offer praise. Yet this is real. Its all real, and they ignore us and  He cut off suddenly, glancing at her, lips tight, jaw clenched. Shed never seen such fervor, such fury from the pleasant ardent. She wouldnt have thought him capable of it. Im sorry, he said, turning from her, leading the way back down the aisle. Its all right, she said, hurrying after him, suddenly feeling depressed. Shallan had expected to find something grander, something more mysterious, behind Jasnahs secretive research. Could it all really just be about proving Vorinism false? They walked in silence out to the balcony. And there, she realized she had to tell him. Kabsal, Im leaving. He looked at her, surprised. Ive had news from my family, she said. I cant speak of it, but I can stay no longer.