Elhokar frantically swung a fist at Dalinar, but Dalinar caught it, then reached down and hauled the king to his feet. He pulled Elhokar forward and slammed his fist into the kings breastplate. Elhokar struggled, but Dalinar repeated the move, smashing his gauntlet against the Plate, cracking the steel casings around his fingers, making the king grunt. The next blow shattered Elhokars breastplate in an explosion of molten shards. Dalinar dropped the king to the floor. Elhokar struggled to rise again, but the breastplate was a focus for the Shardplates power. Missing it left arms and legs heavy. He went to one knee beside the squirming king. Elhokars Shardblade formed again, but Dalinar grabbed the kings wrist and smashed it against the stone floor, knocking the Blade free yet again. It vanished into mist. Guards! Elhokar squealed. Guards, guards, guards ! They wont come, Elhokar, Dalinar said softly. Theyre my men, and I left them with orders not to enteror let anyone else enterno matter what they heard. Even if that included pleas for help from you. Elhokar fell silent. They are my men, Elhokar, Dalinar repeated. I trained them. I placed them there. Theyve always been loyal to me. Why, Uncle? What are you doing? Please, tell me. He was nearly weeping. Dalinar leaned down, getting close enough to smell the kings breath. The girth on your horse during the hunt, Dalinar said quietly. You cut it yourself, didnt you? Elhokars eyes grew wider. The saddles were switched before you came to my camp, Dalinar said. You did that because you didnt want to ruin your favorite saddle when it flew free of the horse. You were planning for it to happen, you made it happen. Thats why youve been so certain that the girth was cut. Cringing, Elhokar nodded. Someone was trying to kill me, but you wouldnt believe! I I worried it might be you! So I decided I You cut your own strap, Dalinar said, to create a visible, obvious- seeming attempt on your life. Something that would get me or Sadeas to investigate. Elhokar hesitated, then nodded again. Dalinar closed his eyes, breathing out slowly. Dont you realize what you did, Elhokar? You brought suspicion on me from across the camps! You gave Sadeas an opportunity to destroy me. He opened his eyes, looking down at the king.