His clothingstriped trousers of black and red with a dark blue sweater that matched the color of his knit caphad once been fine, but it was now growing ragged. Had he once been something other than a slaver? This lifethe casual buying and selling of human fleshseemed to have an effect on men. It wearied the soul, even if it did fill ones money pouch. Tvlakv kept his distance from Kaladin, carrying his oil lantern over to inspect the coughing slave at the front of the cage. Tvlakv called to his mercenaries. BluthKaladin didnt know why hed bothered to learn their nameswandered over. Tvlakv spoke quietly, pointing at the slave. Bluth nodded, slablike face shadowed in the lanternlight, and pulled the cudgel free from his belt. The windspren took the form of a white ribbon, then zipped over toward the sick man. She spun and twisted a few times before landing on the floor, becoming a girl again. She leaned in to inspect the man. Like a curious child. Kaladin turned away and closed his eyes, but he could still hear the coughing. Inside his mind, his fathers voice responded. To cure the grinding coughs, said the careful, precise tone, administer two handfuls of bloodivy, crushed to a powder, each day. If you dont have that, be certain to give the patient plenty of liquids, preferably with sugar stirred in. As long as the patient stays hydrated, he will most likely survive. The disease sounds far worse than it is. Most likely survive Those coughs continued. Someone unlatched the cage door. Would they know how to help the man? Such an easy solution. Give him water, and he would live. It didnt matter. Best not to get involved. Men dying on the battlefield. A youthful face, so familiar and dear, looking to Kaladin for salvation. A sword wound slicing open the side of a neck. A Shardbearer charging through Amarams ranks. Blood. Death. Failure. Pain. And his fathers voice. Can you really leave him, son? Let him die when you could have helped? Storm it! Stop! Kaladin yelled, standing. The other slaves scrambled back. Bluth jumped up, slamming the cage door closed and holding up his cudgel. Tvlakv shied behind the mercenary, using him as cover. Kaladin took a deep breath, closing his hand around the leaves and then raising the other to his head, wiping away a smear of blood. He crossed the small