of clothred for the king, blue for the womenwith weights at the center. Covered plates filled with food followed: a clear, cold stew with sweet vegetables for the women, a spicy-smelling broth for the king. Kharbranthians preferred soups for their lunches. Shallan was surprised to see them set a place for her. Her father had never eaten at the same table as his childreneven she, his favorite, had been relegated to her own table. Once Jasnah sat, Shallan did likewise. Her stomach growled again, and the king waved for them to begin. His motions seemed ungainly compared with Jasnahs elegance. Shallan was soon eating contentedlywith grace, as a woman should, safehand in her lap, using her freehand and a skewer to spear chunks of vegetable or fruit. The king slurped, but he wasnt as noisy as many men. Why had he deigned to visit? Wouldnt a formal dinner invitation have been more proper? Of course, shed learned that Taravangian wasnt known for his mastery of protocol. He was a popular king, beloved by the darkeyes as a builder of hospitals. However, the lighteyes considered him less than bright. He was not an idiot. In lighteyed politics, unfortunately, being only average was a disadvantage. As they ate, the silence drew out, becoming awkward. Several times, the king looked as if he wanted to say something, but then turned back to his soup. He seemed intimidated by Jasnah. And how is your granddaughter, Your Majesty? Jasnah eventually asked. She is recovering well? Quite well, thank you, Taravangian said, as if relieved to begin conversing. Though she now avoids the narrower corridors of the Conclave. I do want to thank you for your aid. It is always fulfilling to be of service, Your Majesty. If you will forgive my saying so, the ardents do not think much of your service, Taravangian said. I realize it is likely a sensitive topic. Perhaps I shouldnt mention it, but No, feel free, Jasnah said, eating a small green lurnip from the end of her skewer. I am not ashamed of my choices. Then youll forgive an old mans curiosity? I always forgive curiosity, Your Majesty, Jasnah said. It strikes me as one of the most genuine of emotions. Then where did you find it? Taravangian asked, nodding toward the Soulcaster, which Jasnah wore covered by a black glove. How did you keep it from the devotaries? One might find those questions dangerous, Your Majesty. Ive already acquired some new enemies by welcoming you.