Because, Navani said. She fit you so well, never making inappropriate comments, never bullying those around her, always so calm. Navani smiled. Thinking back, I really should have been able to hate her. But she was just so nice. Though she wasnt very well What? Dalinar asked. Clever, Navani said. She blushed, which was rare for her. Im sorry, Dalinar, but she just wasnt. She wasnt a fool, but well not everyone can be cunning. Perhaps that was part of her charm. She seemed to think that Dalinar would be offended. Its all right, he said. Were you surprised that I married her? Who could be surprised? As I said, she was perfect for you. Because we were matched intellectually? Dalinar said dryly. Hardly. But you were matched in temperament. For a time, after I got over trying to hate her, I thought that the four of us could be quite close. But you were so stiff toward me. I could not allow any further lapses to make you think that I was still interested. He said the last part awkwardly. After all, wasnt that what he was doing now? Lapsing? Navani eyed him. There you go again. What? Feeling guilty. Dalinar, you are a wonderful, honorable manbut you really are quite prone to self-indulgence. Guilt? As self-indulgence? I never considered it that way before. She smiled deeply. What? he asked. You really are genuine, arent you, Dalinar? I try to be, he said. He glanced over his shoulder. Though the nature of our relationship continues to perpetuate a kind of lie. Weve lied to nobody. Let them think, or guess, what they wish. I suppose you are right. I usually am. She fell silent for a moment. Do you regret what we have  No, Dalinar said sharply, the strength of his objection surprising him. Navani just smiled. No, Dalinar continued, more gently. I do not regret this, Navani. I dont know how to proceed, but I am not going to let go. Navani hesitated beside a growth of tiny, fist-size rockbuds with their vines out like long green tongues. They were grouped almost like a bouquet, growing on a large oval stone placed beside the pathway. I suppose its too much to ask for you to not feel guilty, Navani said.