thousand of them lining up. This would be a full-scale battle, the kind Dalinar had been hoping for, the kind that would let them pit a huge number of Alethi against a large Parshendi force. This could be it. The turning point in the war. Win this day, and everything would change. Dalinar shaded his eyes as well, helm under his arm. He noted with satisfaction that Sadeass scouting crews were crossing to adjacent plateaus where they could watch for Parshendi reinforcements. Just because the Parshendi had brought so many at first didnt mean that there were no other Parshendi forces waiting to flank them. Dalinar and Sadeas wouldnt be taken by surprise again. Come with me, Sadeas said. Let us assault them together! A single grand wave of attack, across forty bridges! Dalinar looked down at the bridge crews; many of their members were lying exhausted on the plateau. Awaitinglikely dreadingtheir next task. Very few of them wore the armor Sadeas had spoken of. Hundreds of them would be slaughtered in the assault if they attacked together. But was that any different from what Dalinar did, asking his men to charge into battle to seize the plateau? Werent they all part of the same army? The cracks. He couldnt let them get wider. If he was going to be with Navani, he had to prove to himself he could remain firm in the other areas. No, he said. I will attack, but only after youve made a landing point for my bridge crews. Even that is more than I should allow. Never force your men to do as you yourself would not. You do charge the Parshendi! Id never do it carrying one of those bridges, Dalinar said. Im sorry, old friend. Its not a judgment of you. It is what I must do. Sadeas shook his head, pulling on his helmet. Well, it will have to do. We still planning on dining together tonight to discuss strategy? I assume so. Unless Elhokar has a fit for both of us missing his feast. Sadeas snorted. Hes going to have to grow accustomed to it. Six years of feasting every night is growing tedious. Besides, I doubt hell feel anything but elation after we win this day and leave the Parshendi down a full third of their soldiers. See you on the battlefield. Dalinar nodded and Sadeas jumped off the rock formation, dropping down to the surface below and joining his officers. Dalinar lingered, looking over at the Tower. It was not only larger than most plateaus, it was rougher, covered with lumpish rock formations of hardened crem. The patterns were rolling and smooth, yet very unevenlike a field full of short walls covered by a blanket of