nearly dropped the root in shock. The carriage. It was coming down the roadway from the mansion. He felt a flutter of nervous hesitation. Hed planned, hed thought, but now that the time was upon him, he wanted to sit and keep peeling. There would be another opportunity, surely. No. He stood, trying to keep the anxiety from his voice. Im going to go rinse off. He held up crem-covered fingers. You should have washed the roots off first as I told you, his mother noted. I know, Kal said. Did his sigh of regret sound fake? Maybe Ill just wash them all off now. Hesina said nothing as he gathered up the remaining roots, crossed to the door, heart thumping, and stepped out into the evening light. See, Tien said from behind, from this side its green. I dont think its a spren, Mother. Its the light. It makes the rock change. The door swung closed. Kal set down the tubers and charged through the streets of Hearthstone, passing men chopping wood, women throwing out dishwater, and a group of grandfathers sitting on steps and looking at the sunset. He dunked his hands into a rain barrel, but didnt stop as he shook the water free. He ran around Mabrow Pigherders house, up past the commonwaterthe large hole cut into the rock at the center of the town to catch rainand along the breakwall, the steep hillside against which the town was built to shield it from storms. Here, he found a small stand of stumpweight trees. Knobby and about as tall as a man, they grew leaves only on their leeward sides, running down the length of the tree like rungs on a ladder, waving in the cool breeze. As Kal got close, the large, bannerlike leaves snapped up close to the trunks, making a series of whipping sounds. Kals father stood on the other side, hands clasped behind his back. He was waiting where the road from the manor turned past Hearthstone. Lirin turned with a start, noticing Kal. He wore his finest clothing: a blue coat, buttoning up the sides, like a lighteyess coat. But it was over a pair of white trousers that showed wear. He studied Kal through his spectacles. Im going with you, Kal blurted. Up to the mansion. How did you know? Everyone knows, Kal said. You think they wouldnt talk if Brightlord Roshone invited you to dinner? You, of all people? Lirin looked away. I told your mother to keep you busy. She tried. Kal grimaced. Ill probably hear a storm of it when she finds those longroots sitting outside the front door. Lirin said nothing. The carriage rolled to a stop nearby, wheels grinding