accomplishing something wonderful? Jasnah walked into the narrow alleyway. Jasnah! Shallan said. What are you doing? This is philosophy in action, child, Jasnah said. Come with me. Shallan hesitated at the mouth of the alleyway, her heart thumping, her thoughts muddled. The wind blew and bells rang, like frozen raindrops shattering against the stones. In a moment of decision, she rushed after Jasnah, preferring company, even in the dark, to being alone. The shrouded glimmer of the Soulcaster was barely enough to light their way, and Shallan followed in Jasnahs shadow. Noise from behind. Shallan turned with a start to see several dark forms crowding into the alley. Oh, Stormfather, she whispered. Why? Why was Jasnah doing this? Shaking, Shallan grabbed at Jasnahs dress with her freehand. Other shadows were moving in front of them, from the far side of the alley. They grew closer, grunting, splashing through foul, stagnant puddles. Chill water had already soaked Shallans slippers. Jasnah stopped moving. The frail light of her cloaked Soulcaster reflected off metal in the hands of their stalkers. Swords or knives. These men meant murder. You didnt rob women like Shallan and Jasnah, women with powerful connections, then leave them alive as witnesses. Men like these were not the gentlemen bandits of romantic stories. They lived each day knowing that if they were caught, they would be hanged. Paralyzed by fear, Shallan couldnt even scream. Stormfather, Stormfather, Stormfather! And now, Jasnah said, voice hard and grim, the lesson. She whipped off her glove. The sudden light was nearly blinding. Shallan raised a hand against it, stumbling back against the alley wall. There were four men around them. Not the men from the tavern entrance, but others. Men she hadnt noticed watching them. She could see the knives now, and she could also see the murder in their eyes. Her scream finally broke free. The men grunted at the glare, but shoved their way forward. A thick-chested man with a dark beard came up to Jasnah, weapon raised. She calmly reached her hand outfingers splayedand pressed it against his chest as he swung a knife. Shallans breath caught in her throat. Jasnahs hand sank into the mans skin, and he froze. A second later he burned.