Something about your father? Why? Have you heard something? Only that hes been reclusive lately. More than normal. She suppressed a flinch. News had gotten this far? Im sorry to go so suddenly. Youll return? I dont know. He looked into her eyes, searching. Do you know when youll be leaving? he said in a suddenly cool voice. Tomorrow morning. Well then, he said. Will you at least do me the honor of sketching me? Youve never given me a likeness, though youve done many of the other ardents. She started, realizing that was true. Despite their time together, shed never done a sketch of Kabsal. She raised her freehand to her mouth. Im sorry! He seemed taken aback. I didnt mean it bitterly, Shallan. Its really not that important Yes it is , she said, grabbing his hand, towing him along the walkway. I left my drawing things up above. Come on. She hurried him to the lift, instructing the parshmen to carry them up. As the lift began to rise, Kabsal looked at her hand in his. She dropped it hastily. Youre a very confusing woman, he said stiffly. I warned you. She held the retrieved book close to her breast. I believe you said you had me figured out. I rescind that statement. He looked at her. Youre really leaving? She nodded. Im sorry. KabsalIm not what you think I am. I think youre a beautiful, intelligent woman. Well, you have the woman part right. Your father is sick, isnt he? She didnt answer. I can see why youd want to return to be with him, Kabsal said. But surely you wont abandon your wardship forever. Youll be back with Jasnah. And she wont be staying in Kharbranth forever. Shes been moving from place to place almost constantly for the last two years. He looked ahead, staring out the front of the lift as they rose. Soon, they had to transfer to another lift to carry them up the next group of floors. I shouldnt have been spending time with you, he finally said. The senior ardents think Im too distracted. They never like it when one of us starts looking outside the ardentia.