Shallan blushed. Even the master of an art may err, I suppose. Go ahead and take the next hour to do His Majesty a proper portrait. Shallan looked down at the ruined sketch. The creatures were simply her fancy, the product of letting her mind wander. That was all. Just imagination. Perhaps there was something in her subconscious that shed needed to express. But what could the figures mean, then? I noticed that at one point when you were speaking to the king, you hesitated, Jasnah said. What didnt you say? Something inappropriate. But clever? Cleverness never seems quite so impressive when regarded outside the moment, Brightness. It was just a silly thought. And you replaced it with an empty compliment. I think you misunderstood what I was trying to explain, child. I do not wish for you to remain silent. It is good to be clever. But if Id spoken, Shallan said, Id have insulted the king, perhaps confused him as well, which would have caused him embarrassment. I am certain he knows what people say about his slowness of thought. Jasnah sniffed. Idle words. From foolish people. But perhaps it was wise not to speak, though keep in mind that channeling your capacities and stifling them are two separate things. Id much prefer you to think of something both clever and appropriate. Yes, Brightness. Besides, Jasnah said, I believe you might have made Taravangian laugh. He seems haunted by something lately. You dont find him dull, then? Shallan asked, curious. She herself didnt think the king dull or a fool, but shed thought someone as intelligent and learned as Jasnah might not have patience for a man like him. Taravangian is a wonderful man, Jasnah said, and worth a hundred self- proclaimed experts on courtly ways. He reminds me of my uncle Dalinar. Earnest, sincere, concerned. The lighteyes here say hes weak, Shallan said. Because he panders to so many other monarchs, because he fears war, because he doesnt have a Shardblade. Jasnah didnt reply, though she looked disturbed. Brightness? Shallan prodded, walking to her own seat and arranging her charcoals. In ancient days, Jasnah said, a man who brought peace to his kingdom