somehow, they held the key to both his madness and the nature of the visions. But the truth was that he didnt know anything, and he couldnt rely on his own decisions. That was unhinging him, bit by bit, point by point. Clouds seemed less frequent here, in these windswept plains. Just the blazing sun broken by the furious highstorms. The rest of Roshar was influenced by the stormsbut here in the East, the feral, untamed highstorms ruled supreme. Could any mortal king hope to claim these lands? There were legends of them being inhabited, of there being more than just unclaimed hills, desolate plains, and overgrown forests. Natanatan, the Granite Kingdom. Ah, Sadeas said, sounding as if hed tasted something bitter. Did he have to come? Dalinar lowered his head and followed Sadeass gaze. Highprince Vamah had arrived to watch the dueling, retinue in tow. Though most of them wore his traditional brown and grey colorings, the highprince himself wore a long grey coat that had slashes cut across it to reveal the bright red and orange silk underneath, matched by the ruffles peeking out of the cuffs and collar. I thought you had a fondness for Vamah, Elhokar said. I tolerate him, Sadeas replied. But his fashion sense is absolutely repulsive. Red and orange? Not even a burnt orange, but a blatant, eye-breaking orange. And the rent style hasnt been fashionable for ages. Ah, wonderful, hes sitting directly across from us. I shall be forced to stare at him for the rest of the session. You shouldnt judge people so harshly based on how they look, Dalinar said. Dalinar, Sadeas said flatly, we are highprinces. We represent Alethkar. Many around the world view us as a center of culture and influence. Should I not, therefore, have the right to encourage a properpresentation to the world? A proper presentation, yes, Dalinar said. It is right for us to be fit and neat. It would be nice if your soldiers, for instance, kept their uniforms clean. Fit, neat, and fashionable, Sadeas corrected. And me? Dalinar asked, looking down at his simple uniform. Would you have me dress in those ruffles and bright colors? You? Sadeas asked. Youre completely hopeless. He raised a hand to forestall objection. No, I am unfair. That uniform has a certain timeless quality to it. The military suit, by virtue of its utility, will never be completely out of fashion. Its a safe choicesteady. In a way, you avoid the issue of fashion by not playing the game. He nodded to Vamah. Vamah tries to play, but does so very poorly. And that is unforgivable. I still say you place too much importance on those silks and scarves,