So youll talk to him? Hum? Your father. Youll ask him about letting the men abandon that dreadfully unfashionable uniform once in a while? Well, hes rather set on the idea, Adolin said. Besides, its really not that unfashionable. Janala gave him a flat stare. All right, he admitted. It is a little drab. Like every other high-ranked lighteyed officer in Dalinars army, Adolin wore a simple blue out-fit of militaristic cut. A long coat of solid blueno embroideryand stiff trousers in a time when vests, silk accents, and scarves were the fashion. His fathers Kholin glyphpair was emblazoned quite obtrusively on the back and breast, and the front fastened with silver buttons up both sides. It was simple, distinctly recognizable, but awfully plain. Your fathers men love him, Adolin, Janala said. But his requirements are growing tiresome. I know. Trust me. But I dont think I can change his mind. How to explain? Despite six years at war, Dalinar wasnt weakening in his resolve to hold to the Codes. If anything, his dedication to them was strengthening. At least now Adolin understood somewhat. Dalinars beloved brother had made one last request: Follow the Codes. True, that request had been in reference to a single event, but Adolins father was known to take things to extremes. Adolin just wished he wouldnt make the same requirement of everyone else. Individually, the Codes were only minor inconveniencesalways be in uniform when in public, never be drunken, avoid dueling. In aggregate, however, they were burdensome. His response to Janala was cut off as a set of horns blared through the camp. Adolin perked up, spinning, looking eastward toward the Shattered Plains. He counted off the next series of horns. A chrysalis had been spotted on plateau one-forty-seven. That was within striking distance! He held his breath, waiting for a third series of horns to blare, calling Dalinars armies to battle. That would only happen if his father ordered it. Part of him knew those horns wouldnt come. One-forty-seven was close enough to Sadeass warcamp that the other highprince would certainly try for it. Come on, Father, Adolin thought. We can race him for it! No horns came. Adolin glanced at Janala. Shed chosen music as her Calling and paid little attention to the war, though her father was one of Dalinars cavalry officers.