Adolin wanted to object, but he couldnt think of the words to say. Finally, he sighed and gave a nod. Youll tell me what this is about, though? Soon, Dalinar promised. Very soon. Dalinar watched his son leave, striding purposefully away. He would make a good highprince. Dalinars decision was a simple one. Was it time to step aside, and let his son take his place? If he took this step, Dalinar would be expected to stay out of politics, retiring to his lands and leaving Adolin to rule. It was a painful decision to contemplate, and he had to be careful not to make it hastily. But if he really was going mad, as everyone in the camp seemed to believe, then he had to step down. And soon, before his condition progressed to the point that he no longer had the presence of mind to let go. A monarch is control, he thought, remembering a passage from The Way of Kings . He provides stability. It is his service and his trade good. If he cannot control himself, then how can he control the lives of men? What merchant worth his Stormlight wont partake of the very fruit he sells? Odd, that those quotes still came to him, even as he was wondering if they hadin partdriven him to madness. Niter, he said. Fetch my warhammer. Have it waiting for me at the staging field. Dalinar wanted to be moving, working, as he thought. His guards hastened to keep up as he strode down the pathway between the barracks of Battalions Six and Seven. Niter sent several men to fetch the weapon. His voice sounded strangely excited, as if he thought Dalinar was going to do something impressive. Dalinar doubted he would think it so. He eventually strode out onto the staging field, cape fluttering behind him, plated boots clanking against the stones. He didnt have to wait long for the hammer; it came pulled by two men on a small cart. Sweating, the soldiers heaved it from the cart, the haft as thick as a mans wrist and the front of the head larger than an outspread palm. Two men together could barely lift it. Dalinar grabbed the hammer with one gauntleted hand, swinging it up to rest on his shoulder. He ignored the soldiers performing exercises on the field, walking to where the group of dirty workers chipped at the latrine ditch. They looked up at him, horrified to see the highprince himself looming over them in full Shardplate.