covered it up by faking a suicide attempt. Impossible. You think Id believe There is no fabrial, is there, Jasnah? Theres no Soulcaster. There never has been. You use the fake fabrial to distract people from the fact that you have the power to Soulcast on your own. Jasnah fell silent. I did it too, Shallan said. The Soulcaster was tucked away in my safepouch. I wasnt touching itbut that didnt matter. It was a fake. What I did, I did without it. Perhaps being near you has changed me, somehow. It has something to do with that place and those creatures. Again, no reply. You suspected Kabsal of being an assassin, Shallan said. You knew immediately what had happened when I fell; you were expecting poison, or at least were aware that it was possible. But you thought the poison was in the jam. You Soulcast it when you opened the lid and pretended to smell it. You didnt know how to re-create strawberry jam, and when you tried, you made that vile concoction. You thought to get rid of poison. But you inadvertently Soulcast away the antidote . You didnt want to eat the bread either, just in case there was something in it. You always refused it. When I convinced you to take a bite, you Soulcast it into something else as you put it in your mouth. You said youre terrible at making organic things, and what you created was revolting. But you got rid of the poison, which is why you didnt succumb to it. Shallan met her former mistresss eyes. Was it the fatigue that made her so indifferent to the consequences of confronting this woman? Or was it her knowledge of the truth? You did all that, Jasnah, Shallan finished, with a fake Soulcaster. You hadnt spotted my swap yet. Dont try to tell me otherwise. I took it on the night when you killed those three thugs. Jasnahs violet eyes showed a glimmer of surprise. Yes, Shallan said, that long ago. You didnt replace it with a decoy. You didnt know youd been tricked until I got out the fabrial and let you save me with it. Its all a lie, Jasnah. No, Jasnah said. Youre just delusional from your fatigue and the stress. Very well, Shallan said. She stood up, clutching the dim sphere. I guess Ill have to show you. If I can. Creatures, she said in her head. Can you hear me? Yes, always, a whisper came in response. Though shed hoped to hear it, she still jumped. Can you return me to that place? she asked.