The chasmfiend! he thought. Before his mind was even clear, Adolin began summoning his Blade again and forced himself to his hands and knees. The monster loomed a short distance away, a dark shadow upon the sky. Adolin had fallen near its right side. As his vision lost its fuzziness, he saw that the king was down, and his armor was cracked from the blow hed taken earlier. The chasmfiend raised a massive claw, preparing to slam it down. Adolin knewsuddenlythat disaster was upon them. The king would be killed on a simple hunt. The kingdom would shatter, the highprinces divided, the one tenuous link that kept them together cut away. No! Adolin thought, stunned, still dazed, trying to stumble forward. And then he saw his father. Dalinar charged toward the king, moving with a speed and grace no man not even one wearing Shardplateshould be able to manage. He leaped over a rock shelf, then ducked and skidded beneath a claw swinging for him. Other men thought they understood Shardblades and Shardplate, but Dalinar Kholinat times, he proved them all children. Dalinar straightened and leapedstill moving forwardcresting by inches a second claw that smashed apart the rocky shelf behind him. It was all just a moment. A breath. The third claw was falling toward the king, and Dalinar roared, leaping forward. He dropped his Bladeit hit the ground and puffed awayas he skidded beneath the falling claw. He raised his hands and And he caught it. He bent beneath the blow, going down on one knee, and the air rang with a resounding clang of carapace against armor. But he caught it . Stormfather! Adolin thought, watching his father stand over the king, bowed beneath the enormous weight of a monster many times his size. Shocked archers hesitated. Sadeas lowered his grandbow. Adolins breath caught in his chest. Dalinar held back the claw and matched its strength, a figure in dark, silvery metal that almost seemed to glow. The beast trumpeted above, and Dalinar bellowed back a powerful, defiant yell. In that moment, Adolin knew he was seeing him . The Blackthorn, the very man hed been wishing he could fight alongside. The Plate of Dalinars gauntlets and shoulders began to crack, webs of light moving down the ancient metal. Adolin finally shook himself into motion. I have to help! His Shardblade formed in his hand and he scrambled to the side and sheared through the leg nearest to him. There was a crack in the air. With so many legs down, the beasts other legs couldnt hold its weight, particularly when it was trying so hard to crush Dalinar. The remaining legs on its right side snapped with