cooked them a pot of stew. They were listening to Teft, who sat with his arm bandaged, speaking quietly. Shen was there; the quiet parshman sat at the very edge of the group. Theyd recovered him, along with their wounded, from Sadeass camp. Teft cut off as soon as he saw Kaladin, and the men turned, most of them bearing bandages of some sort. Dalinar wants these for his bodyguards? Kaladin thought. They were a ragged bunch indeed. As it happened, however, he seconded Dalinars choice. If he were going to put his life in someones hands, hed choose this group. What are you doing? Kaladin asked sternly. You should all be resting. The bridgemen glanced at each other. It just Moash said. It didnt feel right to go to sleep until wed had a chance to well, do this. Hard to sleep on a day like this, gancho, Lopen added. Speak for yourself, Skar said, yawning, wounded leg resting up on a stump. But the stew is worth staying up for. Even if he does put rocks in it. I do not! Rock snapped. Airsick lowlanders. Theyd left a place for Kaladin. He sat down, using Dalinars cloak as a cushion for his back and head. He gratefully took a bowl of stew that Drehy handed him. Weve been talking about what the men saw today, Teft said. The things you did. Kaladin hesitated, spoon to his mouth. Hed nearly forgottenor maybe hed intentionally forgottenthat hed shown his men what he could do with Stormlight. Hopefully Dalinars soldiers hadnt seen. His Stormlight had been faint by then, the day bright. I see, Kaladin said, his appetite fleeing. Did they see him as different? Frightening? Something to be ostracized, as his father had been back in Hearthstone? Worse yet, something to be worshipped? He looked into their wide eyes and braced himself. It was amazing ! Drehy said, leaning forward. Youre one of the Radiants, Skar said, pointing. I believe it, even if Teft says you arent. He isnt yet , Teft snapped. Dont you listen? Can you teach me to do what you did? Moash cut in. Ill learn too, gancho, Lopen said. You know, if youre teaching and all. Kaladin blinked, overwhelmed, as the others chimed in. What can you do? How does it feel?