We shall begin with music. How would you judge your skill? I have a good ear, Brightness, Shallan said honestly. Im best with voice, though I have been trained on the zither and the pipes. I would be far from the best youd heard, but Id also be far from the worst. I know most historical ballads by heart. Give me the refrain from Lilting Adrene. Here? Im not fond of repeating myself, child. Shallan blushed, but began to sing. It wasnt her finest performance, but her tone was pure and she didnt stumble over any of the words. Good, Jasnah said as Shallan paused for a breath. Languages? Shallan fumbled for a moment, bringing her attention away from frantically trying to remember the next verse. Languages? I can speak your native Alethi, obviously, Shallan said. I have a passable reading knowledge of Thaylen and good spoken Azish. I can make myself understood in Selay, but not read it. Jasnah made no comment either way. Shallan began to grow nervous. Writing? Jasnah asked. I know all of the major, minor, and topical glyphs and can paint them calligraphically. So can most children. The glyphwards that I paint are regarded by those who know me as quite impressive. Glyphwards? Jasnah said. I had reason to believe you wanted to be a scholar, not a purveyor of superstitious nonsense. I have kept a journal since I was a child, Shallan continued, in order to practice my writing skills. Congratulations, Jasnah said. Should I need someone to write a treatise on their stuffed pony or give an account of an interesting pebble they discovered, I shall send for you. Is there nothing you can offer that shows you have true skill? Shallan blushed. With all due respect, Brightness, you have a letter from me yourself, and it was persuasive enough to make you grant me this audience. A valid point, Jasnah said, nodding. It took you long enough to make it. How is your training in logic and its related arts? I am accomplished in basic mathematics, Shallan said, still flustered, and I often helped with minor accounts for my father. I have read through the complete works of Tormas, Nashan, Niali the Just, andof courseNohadon. Placini? Who? No.