progressing downward, and were probably far underground. A massive stone, taller than a man, had fallen into a doorway on the left. There was no getting past it into the room beyond. Shallan thought she heard sounds on the other side. The king stepped up to the stone, speaking in a comforting voice. He pulled a handkerchief out of his pocket and wiped his aged brow. The dangers of living in a building cut directly into the rock, Jasnah said, striding forward. When did this happen? Apparently she hadnt been summoned to the city specifically for this purpose; the king was simply taking advantage of her presence. During the recent highstorm, Brightness, the king said. He shook his head, making his drooping, thin white mustache tremble. The palace architects might be able to cut a way into the room, but it would take time, and the next highstorm is scheduled to hit in just a few days. Beyond that, breaking in might bring down more of the ceiling. I thought Kharbranth was protected from the highstorms, Your Majesty, Shallan said, causing Jasnah to shoot her a glance. The city is sheltered, young woman, the king said. But the stone mountain behind us is buffeted quite strongly. Sometimes it causes avalanches on that side, and that can cause the entire mountainside to shake. He glanced at the ceiling. Cave-ins are very rare, and we thought this area was quite safe, but But it is rock, Jasnah said, and there is no telling if a weak vein lurks just beyond the surface. She inspected the monolith that had fallen from the ceiling. This will be difficult. I will probably lose a very valuable focal stone. I the king began, wiping his brow again. If only we had a Shardblade  Jasnah cut him off with a wave of the hand. I was not seeking to renegotiate our bargain, Your Majesty. Access to the Palanaeum is worth the cost. You will want to send someone for wet rags. Have the majority of the servants move down to the other end of the hallway. You may wish to wait there yourself. I will stay here, the king said, causing his attendants to object, including a large man wearing a black leather cuirass, probably his bodyguard. The king silenced them by raising his wrinkled hand. I will not hide like a coward when my granddaughter is trapped. No wonder he was so anxious. Jasnah didnt argue further, and Shallan could see from her eyes that it was of no consequence to her if the king risked his life. The same apparently went for Shallan, for Jasnah didnt order her away. Servants approached with wetted cloths and distributed them. Jasnah refused hers. The king and his bodyguard raised theirs to their faces, covering mouth and