She sighed. Its a wonder they didnt become known as birthberries, considering She blushed. He laughed. Thats a good point! Stormfather, she said, blushing further. Im terrible at being proper. Here, give me some of that jam. He smiled, handing over a slice of bread with green jam slathered across the top. A dull-eyed parshmanappropriated from inside the Conclavesat on the ground beside a shalebark wall, acting as an impromptu chaperone. It felt so strange to be out with a man near her own age with only a single parshman in attendance. It felt liberating. Exhilarating. Or maybe that was just the sunlight and the open air. Im also terrible at being scholarly, she said, closing her eyes, breathing deeply. I like it outside far too much. Many of the greatest scholars spent their lives traveling. And for each one of them, Shallan said, there were a hundred more stuck back in a hole of a library, buried in books. And they wouldnt have had it any other way. Most people with a bent for research prefer their holes and libraries. But you do not. That makes you intriguing. She opened her eyes, smiling at him, then took a luscious bite of her jam and bread. This Thaylen bread was so fluffy, it was more like cake. So, she said as he chewed on his bite, do you feel any more truthful, now that youve had the jam? I am an ardent, he said. It is my duty and calling to be truthful at all times. Of course, she said. Im always truthful as well. So full of truth, in fact, that sometimes it squeezes the lies right out my lips. There isnt a place for them inside, you see. He laughed heartily. Shallan Davar. I cant imagine anyone as sweet as yourself uttering a single untruth. Then for the sake of your sanity, Ill keep them coming in pairs. She smiled. Im having a terrible time, and this food is awful. Youve just disproven an entire body of lore and mythology surrounding the eating of truthberry jam! Good, Shallan said. Jam should not have lore or mythology. It should be sweet, colorful, and delicious. Like young ladies, I presume. Brother Kabsal! She blushed again. That wasnt at all appropriate. And yet you smile.