breath. I want to pool our resources to buy medicine and get food for the wounded. We can keep those three alive if a few of you will split your meals with them. Well need about two dozen or so clearmarks to buy the right medicine and supplies. Who has something they can spare? The men stared at him, then Moash started laughing. Others joined him. They waved dismissive hands and broke up, walking away, leaving Kaladin with his hand out. Next time it could be you! he called. What will you do if youre the one that needs healing? Ill die, Moash said, not even bothering to look back. Out on the field, quickly, rather than back here over a weeks time. Kaladin lowered his hand. He sighed, turning, and almost ran into Rock. The beefy, towerlike Horneater stood with arms folded, like a tan-skinned statue. Kaladin looked up at him, hopeful. Dont have any spheres, Rock said with a grunt. Is all spent already. Kaladin sighed. It wouldnt have mattered anyway. Two of us couldnt afford to buy the medicine. Not alone. I will give some food, Rock grumbled. Kaladin glanced back at him, surprised. But only for this man with arrow in his leg, Rock said, arms still folded. Hobber? Whatever, Rock said. He looks like he could get better. Other one, he will die. Is certain. And I have no pity for man who sits there, not doing anything. But for the other one, you may have my food. Some of it. Kaladin smiled, raising a hand and gripping the larger mans arm. Thank you. Rock shrugged. You took my place. Without this thing, I would be dead. Kaladin smirked at that logic. Im not dead, Rock. Youd be fine. Rock shook his head. Id be dead. Is something strange about you. All men can see it, even if they dont want to speak of this thing. I looked at bridge where you were. Arrows hit all around youbeside your head, next to your hands. But they werent hitting you. Luck. Is no such thing. Rock glanced at Kaladins shoulder. Besides, there is mafahliki who always follows you. The large Horneater bowed his head reverently to Syl, then made a strange gesture with his hand touching his shoulders and then his forehead. Kaladin started. You can see her? He glanced at Syl. As a windspren, she could appear to those she wanted toand that generally only meant Kaladin. Syl seemed shocked. No, she hadnt appeared to Rock specifically.