I thought that you might like this one, Tvlakv said, stepping up to her. He is quite She raised the rod and silenced Tvlakv. She had a small sore on one lip. Some ground cussweed root could help with that. Remove your top, slave, she commanded. Kaladin stared her right in her blue eyes and felt an almost irresistible urge to spit at her. No. No, he couldnt afford that. Not when there was a chance. He pulled his arms out of the sacklike clothing, letting it fall to his waist, exposing his chest. Despite eight months as a slave, he was far better muscled than the others. A large number of scars for one so young, the noblewoman said thoughtfully. You are a military man? Yes. His windspren zipped up to the woman, inspecting her face. Mercenary? Amarams army, Kaladin said. A citizen, second nahn.  Once a citizen, Tvlakv put in quickly. He was She silenced Tvlakv again with her rod, glaring at him. Then she used the rod to push aside Kaladins hair and inspect his forehead.  Shash glyph, she said, clicking her tongue. Several of the soldiers nearby stepped closer, hands on their swords. Where I come from, slaves who deserve these are simply executed. They are fortunate, Kaladin said. And how did you end up here? I killed someone, Kaladin said, preparing his lies carefully. Please, he thought to the Heralds. Please. It had been a long time since he had prayed for anything. The woman raised an eyebrow. Im a murderer, Brightness, Kaladin said. Got drunk, made some mistakes. But I can use a spear as well as any man. Put me in your brightlords army. Let me fight again. It was a strange lie to make, but the woman would never let Kaladin fight if she thought he was a deserter. In this case, better to be known as an accidental murderer. Please he thought. To be a soldier again. It seemed, in one moment, the most glorious thing he could ever have wanted. How much better it would be to die on the battlefield than waste away emptying chamber pots. To the side, Tvlakv stepped up beside the lighteyed woman. He glanced at Kaladin, then sighed. Hes a deserter, Brightness. Dont listen to him. No! Kaladin felt a blazing burst of anger consume his hope. He raised hands toward Tvlakv. Hed strangle the rat, and