them would actually do it. Hearthstones duty was to provide food. My fighting is not as glorious as the war for vengeance, Amaram said, but it is our sacred duty to defend our lands. This tour will be for four years, and upon completing your duty, you will receive a war bonus equal to one-tenth your total wages. You may then return, or you may sign up for further duty. Distinguish yourself and rise to a high rank, and it could mean an increase of one nahn for you and your children. Are there any volunteers? Ill go, Jost said, stepping forward. Me too, Abry added. Jost! Josts mother said, grabbing his arm. The crops Your crops are important, darkwoman, Amaram said, but not nearly as important as the defense of our people. The king sends back riches from the plundered Plains, and the gemstones he has captured can provide food for Alethkar in emergency. You two are both welcome. Are there any others? Three more boys from the town stepped forward, and one older manHarl, who had lost his wife to the scarfever. He was the man whose daughter Kaladin hadnt been able to save after her fall. Excellent, Amaram said. Are there any others? The townspeople were still. Oddly so. Many of the boys Kaladin had heard talk so often about joining the army looked away. Kaladin felt his heart beating, and his leg twitched, as if itching to propel him forward. No. He was to be a surgeon. Lirin looked at him, and his dark brown eyes displayed hints of deep concern. But when Kaladin didnt make any moves forward, he relaxed. Very well, Amaram said, nodding to Roshone. We will need your list after all. List? Lirin asked loudly. Amaram glanced at him. The need of our army is great, darkborn. I will take volunteers first, but the army must be replenished. As citylord, my cousin has the duty and honor of deciding which men to send. Read the first four names, Alaxia, Roshone said, and the last one. Alaxia looked down at her list, speaking with a dry voice. Agil, son of Marf. Caull, son of Taleb. Kaladin looked up at Lirin with apprehension. He cant take you, Lirin said. Were of the second nahn and provide an essential function to the townI as surgeon, you as my only apprentice. By the law, we are exempt from conscription. Roshone knows it. Habrin, son of Arafik, Alaxia continued. Jorna, son of Loats. She hesitated, then looked up. Tien, son of Lirin.