He could have been rich. Hed given it all away, just like that. And still , the mere thought of touching that Blade turned his stomach. He didnt want wealth, titles, armies, or even a good meal. He wanted to be able to go back and protect the men who had trusted him. Why had he chased after the Shardbearer? He should have run. But no, hed insisted on charging at a storming Shardbearer . You protected your highmarshal, he told himself. Youre a hero. But why was Amarams life worth more than those of his men? Kaladin served Amaram because of the honor he had shown. He let spearmen share his comfort in the warcenter during highstorms, a different squad each storm. He insisted that his men be well fed and well paid. He didnt treat them like slime. He did let his subordinates do so, though. And hed broken his promise to shelter Tien. So did I. So did I. Kaladins insides were a twisted mess of guilt and sorrow. One thing remained clear, like a bright spot of light on the wall of a dark room. He wanted nothing to do with those Shards. He didnt even want to touch them. The door thumped open, and Kaladin turned in his chair. Amaram entered. Tall, lean, with a square face and long martial coat of deep green. He walked on a crutch. Kaladin eyed the wrappings and splint with a critical eye. I could have done better. Hed also have insisted that the patient remain in bed. Amaram was talking to one of his stormwardens, a middle-aged man with a square beard and robes of deep black. why Thaidakar would risk this? Amaram was saying, speaking in a soft voice. But who else would it be? The Ghostbloods grow more bold. Well need to find out who he was. Do we know anything about him? He was Veden, Brightlord, the stormwarden said. Nobody I recognize. But I will investigate. Amaram nodded, falling silent. Behind the two, a group of lighteyed officers entered, one of them carrying the Shardblade, holding it on a pure white cloth. Behind this group came the four surviving members of Kaladins squad: Hab, Reesh, Alabet, and Coreb. Kaladin stood up, feeling exhausted. Amaram remained by the door, arms folded, as two final men entered and closed the door. These last two were also lighteyes, but lesser onesofficers in Amarams personal guard. Had these been among those who had fled? It was the smart thing to do, Kaladin thought. Smarter than what I did. Amaram leaned on his walking staff, inspecting Kaladin with bright tan eyes. Hed been in conference with his counselors for several hours now, trying