He broke into a jog. The sun was growing warm overhead, but he wanted to move. The stories, he continued between puffs, they prove it. What happened to the Heralds? They abandoned us. What happened to the Knights Radiant? They fell and became tarnished. What happened to the Epoch Kingdoms? They crashed when the church tried to seize power. You cant trust anyone with power, Syl. What do you do, then? Have no leaders? No. You give the power to the lighteyes and leave it to corrupt them. Then try to stay as far from them as possible. His words felt hollow. How good a job had he done staying away from lighteyes? He always seemed to be in the thick of them, caught in the muddy mire they created with their plots, schemes, and greed. Syl fell silent, and after that last jog, he decided to stop his practicing. He couldnt afford to strain himself again. He returned the plank. The carpenters scratched their heads, but didnt complain. He made his way back to the bridgemen, noticing that a small group of themincluding Rock and Teft were chatting and glancing at Kaladin. You know, Kaladin said to Syl, talking to you probably doesnt do anything for my reputation of being insane. Ill do my best to stop being so interesting, Syl said, alighting on his shoulder. She put her hands on her hips, then plopped down to a sitting position, smiling, obviously pleased with her comment. Before Kaladin could get back to the barrack, he noticed Gaz hustling across the lumberyard toward him. You! Gaz said, pointing at Kaladin. Hold a season. Kaladin stopped, waiting with folded arms. Ive news for you, Gaz said, squinting with his good eye. Brightlord Lamaril heard what you did with the wounded. How? Storms, boy! Gaz said. You think people wouldnt talk? What were you going to do? Hide three men in the middle of us all? Kaladin took a deep breath, but backed down. Gaz was right. All right. What does it matter? We didnt slow the army. Yeah, Gaz said, but Lamaril isnt too polished on the idea of paying and feeding bridgemen who cant work. He took the matter to Highprince Sadeas, intending to have you strung up. Kaladin felt a chill. Strung up would mean hung out during a highstorm for the Stormfather to judge. It was essentially a death sentence. And?