night. Well? Kaladin demanded. What was her response? Holding a blanket around herself, staring with haunted eyes at her lands, she replied, Do you not see, Traveling One? If the emperor is dead, and has been all these years, then the murders we committed are not his responsibility. They are our own. Kaladin sat back. Gone was the taunting, playful tone Hoid had used earlier. No more mockery. No more quick tongue intended to confuse. This story had come from within his heart, and Kaladin found he could not speak. He just sat, thinking of that island and the terrible things that had been done. I think Kaladin finally replied, licking his dry lips, I think that is cleverness. Hoid raised an eyebrow, looking up from his flute. Being able to remember a story like that, Kaladin said, to tell it with such care. Be wary of what you say, Hoid said, smiling. If all you need for cleverness is a good story, then Ill find myself out of a job. Didnt you say you were already out of a job? True. The king is finally without wit. I wonder what that makes him. Um witless? Kaladin said. Ill tell him you said that, Hoid noted, eyes twinkling. But I think its inaccurate. One can have a wit, but not a witless. What is a wit? I dont know. Some kind of spren in your head, maybe, that makes you think? Hoid cocked his head, then laughed. Why, I suppose thats as good an explanation as any. He stood up, dusting off his black trousers. Is the story true? Kaladin asked, rising too. Perhaps. But how would we know it? Did Derethil and his men return? Some stories say they did. But how could they? The highstorms only blow one direction. Then I guess the story is a lie. I didnt say that. No, I said it. Fortunately, its the best kind of lie. And what kind is that? Why, the kind I tell, of course. Hoid laughed, then kicked out the fire, grinding the last of the coals beneath his heel. It didnt really seem there had been enough fuel to make the smoke Kaladin had seen. What did you put in the fire? Kaladin said. To make that special smoke?