valuable. So having someone like Szeth to order around was quite the novelty. He cleaned floors, sawed wood, helped in the fields, and carried burdens. Some treated him well, some did not. But they always got rid of him. Perhaps they could sense the truth, that he was capable of so much more than they dared use him for. It was one thing to have a slave of your own. But when that slave talked like a lighteyes and knew more than you did? It made them uncomfortable. Szeth tried to play the part, tried to make himself act less refined. It was very difficult for him. Perhaps impossible. What would these men say if they knew that the man who emptied their chamber pot was a Shardbearer and a Surgebinder? A Windrunner, like the Radiants of old? The moment he summoned his Blade, his eyes would turn from dark green to palealmost glowingsapphire, a unique effect of his particular weapon. Best that they never discovered. Szeth gloried in being wasted; each day he was made to clean or dig instead of kill was a victory. That evening five years ago still haunted him. Before then, he had been ordered to killbut always in secret, silently. Never before had he been given such deliberately terrible instructions. Kill, destroy, and cut your way to the king. Be seen doing it. Leave witnesses. Wounded but alive. and that is when he swore to serve me my entire life, Took finished. Hes been with me ever since. The listening men turned to Szeth. It is true, he said, as hed been ordered earlier. Every word of it. Took smiled. Szeth didnt make him uncomfortable; he apparently considered it natural that Szeth obeyed him. Perhaps as a result he would remain Szeths master longer than the others. Well, Took said, Oi should be going. Need to get an early start tomorrow. More places to see, more unseen roads to dare He liked to think of himself as a seasoned traveler, though as far as Szeth could tell, he just moved around in a wide circle. There were many small mines and therefore small villagesin this part of Bavland. Took had probably been to this same village years back, but the mines made for a lot of transient workers. It was unlikely hed be remembered, unless someone had noted his terribly exaggerated stories. Terrible or not, the other miners seemed to thirst for more. They urged him on, offering him another drink, and he modestly agreed. Szeth sat quietly, legs folded, hands in his lap, blood trickling down his arm.