forgone training to scavenge. And then today theyd been awakened for a morning chasm assault after only three hours of sleep. They were drooping as they stood in line, and they hadnt even reached the contested plateau yet. Let it come, Skar said quietly from the other side of the line. They want us dead? Well, Im not going to back down. Well show them what courage is. They can hide behind our bridges while we charge. Thats no victory, Moash said. I say we attack the soldiers. Right now. Our own troops? Sigzil said, turning his dark-skinned head and looking down the line of men. Sure, Moash said, eyes still forward. Theyre going to kill us anyway. Lets take a few of them with us. Damnation, why not charge Sadeas? His guard wont expect it. Ill bet we could knock down a few and grab their spears, then be on to killing lighteyes before they cut us down. A couple of bridgemen murmured their assent as the soldiers continued to cross. No, Kaladin said. It wouldnt accomplish anything. Theyd have us dead before we could so much as inconvenience Sadeas. Moash spat. And this will accomplish something? Damnation, Kaladin, I feel like Im already dangling from the noose! I have a plan, Kaladin said. He waited for the objections. His other plans hadnt worked. No one offered a complaint. Well then, Moash said. What is it? Youll see today, Kaladin said. If it works, it will buy us time. If it fails, Ill be dead. He turned to look down the line of faces. In that case, Teft has orders to lead you on an escape attempt tonight. Youre not ready, but at least youll have a chance. That was far better than attacking Sadeas as he crossed. Kaladins men nodded, and Moash seemed content. As contrary as hed been originally, he had grown equally loyal. He was hotheaded, but he was also the best with the spear. Sadeas approached, riding his roan stallion, wearing his red Shardplate, helm on but visor up. By chance, he crossed on Kaladins bridge, thoughas always he had twenty to choose from. Sadeas didnt give Bridge Four so much as a glance. Break and cross, Kaladin ordered after Sadeas was over. The bridgemen crossed their bridge, and Kaladin gave the orders for them to pull it behind them, then lift. It felt heavier than it ever had before. The bridgemen broke into a trot,