themselves, waving at him in the wind. When he passed, the timid grass pulled back, but the fingermoss was bolder. The clumps would only pull into their shells if he tapped the rock near them. Above him, on the ridge, a few scouts stood watch over the Shattered Plains. This area beneath the ridge belonged to no specific highprince, and the scouts ignored Kaladin. He would only be stopped if he tried to leave the warcamps at the southern or northern sides. None of the bridgemen had come after him. He wasnt certain what Teft had told them. Perhaps hed said Kaladin was distraught following Mapss death. It felt odd to be alone. Ever since hed been betrayed by Amaram and made a slave, he had been in the company of others. Slaves with whom hed plotted. Bridgemen with whom hed worked. Soldiers to guard him, slavemasters to beat him, friends to depend on him. The last time hed been alone had been that night when hed been tied up for the highstorm to kill him. No, he thought. I wasnt alone that night. Syl was there. He lowered his head, passing small cracks in the ground to his left. Those lines eventually grew into chasms as they moved eastward. What was happening to him? He wasnt delusional. Teft and Lopen had seen it too. Teft had actually seemed to expect it. Kaladin should have died during that highstorm. And yet, he had been up and walking shortly afterward. His ribs should still be tender, but they hadnt ached in weeks. His spheres, and those of the other bridgemen near him, had consistently run out of Stormlight. Had it been the highstorm that had changed him? But no, hed discovered drained spheres before being hung out to die. And Sylshed as much as admitted responsibility for some of what had happened. This had been going on a long time. He stopped beside a rock outcropping, resting against it, causing grass to shrink away. He looked eastward, over the Shattered Plains. His home. His sepulcher. This life on them was ripping him apart. The bridgemen looked up to him, thought him their leader, their savior. But he had cracks in him, like the cracks in the stone here at the edges of the Plains. Those cracks were growing larger. He kept making promises to himself, like a man running a long distance with no energy left. Just a little farther. Run just to that next hill. Then you can give up. Tiny fractures, fissures in the stone. Its right that I came here, he thought. We belong together, you and I. Im like you. What had made the Plains break in the first place? Some kind of great weight? A melody began playing distantly, carrying over the Plains. Kaladin jumped