others want to blame Alakavish. And true, if he hadnt brought us to war before the Desolation, we might not have been broken this badly. But Alakavish was a symptom of a greater disease. When the Heralds next return, what will they find? A people who have forgotten them yet again? A world torn by war and squabbling? If we continue as we have, then perhaps we deserve to lose. Dalinar felt a chill. He had thought that this vision must come after his previous one, but prior visions hadnt been chronological. He hadnt seen any Knights Radiant yet, but that might not be because they had disbanded. Perhaps they didnt exist yet. And perhaps there was a reason this mans words sounded so familiar. Could it be? Could he really be standing beside the very man whose words Dalinar had listened to time and time again? There is honor in loss, Dalinar said carefully, using words repeated several times in The Way of Kings . If that loss brings learning. The man smiled. Using my own sayings against me again, Karm? Dalinar felt himself grow short of breath. The man himself. Nohadon. The great king. He was real. Or he had been real. This man was younger than Dalinar had imagined him, but that humble, yet regal bearing yes, it was right. Im thinking of giving up my throne, Nohadon said softly. No! Dalinar stepped toward him. You mustnt. I cannot lead them, the man said. Not if this is what my leadership brings them to. Nohadon. The man turned to him, frowning. What? Dalinar paused. Could he be wrong about this mans identity? But no. The name Nohadon was more of a title. Many famous people in history had been given holy names by the Church, before it was disbanded. Even Bajerden wasnt likely to be his real name; that was lost in time. It is nothing, Dalinar said. You cannot give up your throne. The people need a leader. They have leaders, Nohadon said. There are princes, kings, Soulcasters, Surgebinders. We never lack men and women who wish to lead. True, Dalinar said, but we do lack ones who are good at it. Nohadon leaned over the railing. He stared at the fallen, an expression of deep griefand troubleon his face. It was so strange to see the man like this. He was so young. Dalinar had never imagined such insecurity, such torment, in him. I know that feeling, Dalinar said softly. The uncertainty, the shame, the confusion.