Theres nothing you could have done. There isnt ever anything I can do. Stormfather, why cant I save them? The bridge stopped shaking, the cavalry smashing into the Parshendi and making space for the foot soldiers, who clanked across next. The cavalry would retreat after the foot soldiers gained purchase, the horses too valuable to risk in extended fighting. Yes, Kaladin thought. Think about the tactics. Think about the battle. Dont think about Dunny. He pushed Moash off him, rising. Dunnys corpse was mangled beyond recognition. Kaladin set his jaw and turned, striding away without looking back. He brushed past the watching bridgemen and stepped up to the lip of the chasm, clasping his hands to his forearms behind his back, feet spread. It wasnt dangerous, so long as he stood far down from the bridge. The Parshendi had put away bows and were falling back. The chrysalis was a towering, oval stone mound on the far left side of the plateau. Kaladin wanted to watch. It helped him think like a soldier, and thinking like a soldier helped him get over the deaths of those near him. The other bridgemen tentatively approached and filled in around him, standing at parade rest. Even Shen the parshman joined them, silently imitating the others. Hed joined every bridge run so far without complaint. He didnt refuse to march against his cousins; he didnt try to sabotage the assault. Gaz was disappointed, but Kaladin wasnt surprised. That was how parshmen were. Except the ones on the other side of the chasm. Kaladin stared at the fighting, but had difficulty focusing on the tactics. Dunnys death tore at him too much. The lad had been a friend, one of the first to support him, one of the best of the bridgemen. Each bridgeman dead edged them closer to disaster. It would take weeks to train the men properly. Theyd lose half of their numberperhaps even more before they were anywhere near ready to fight. That wasnt good enough. Well, youll have to find a way to fix it, Kaladin thought. Hed made his decision, and had no room for despair. Despair was a luxury. He broke parade rest and stalked away from the chasm. The other bridgemen turned to look after him, surprised. Kaladin had recently taken to watching entire battles standing like that. Sadeass soldiers had noticed. Many saw it as bridgemen behaving above their station. A few, however, seemed to respect Bridge Four for the display. He knew there were rumors about him because of the storm; these were adding to those. Bridge Four followed, and Kaladin led them across the rocky plateau. He pointedly did not look again at the broken, mangled body on the bridge. Dunny