Shallan, waving her to join them. Of course, Brightness, the king said. He seemed to defer to Jasnah. Kharbranth was a very small kingdomjust a single citywhile Alethkar was one of the worlds most powerful. An Alethi princess might well outrank a Kharbranthian king in real terms, however protocol would have it. Shallan hurried to catch up to Jasnah, who walked a little behind the king as he began to speak to his attendants. Brightness, Shallan said. I am Shallan Davar, whom you asked to meet you. I deeply regret not being able to get to you in Dumadari. The fault was not yours, Jasnah said with a wave of the fingers. I didnt expect that you would make it in time. I wasnt certain where I would be going after Dumadari when I sent you that note, however. Jasnah wasnt angry; that was a good sign. Shallan felt some of her anxiety recede. I am impressed by your tenacity, child, Jasnah continued. I honestly didnt expect you to follow me this far. After Kharbranth, I was going to forgo leaving you notes, as Id presumed that youd have given up. Most do so after the first few stops. Most? Then it was a test of some sort? And Shallan had passed? Yes indeed, Jasnah continued, voice musing. Perhaps I will actually allow you to petition me for a place as my ward. Shallan almost stumbled in shock. Petition her? Wasnt that what shed already done? Brightness, Shallan said, I thought thatWell, your letter Jasnah eyed her. I gave you leave to meet me, Miss Davar. I did not promise to take you on. The training and care of a ward is a distraction for which I have little tolerance or time at the present. But you have traveled far. I will entertain your request, though understand that my requirements are strict. Shallan covered a grimace. No tantrum, Jasnah noted. That is a good sign. Tantrum, Brightness? From a lighteyed woman? Youd be surprised, Jasnah said dryly. But attitude alone will not earn your place. Tell me, how extensive is your education? Extensive in some areas, Shallan said. Then she hesitantly added, Extensively lacking in others. Very well, Jasnah said. Ahead, the king seemed to be in a hurry, but he was old enough that even an urgent walk was still slow. Then we shall do an evaluation. Answer truthfully and do not exaggerate, as I will soon discover your lies. Feign no false modesty, either. I havent the patience for a simperer. Yes, Brightness.