But something does have to change. We need a better way to fight. Sadeas has a better way already. I spoke of his bridges to you. They work so well, and hes captured so many gemhearts. Gemhearts are meaningless, Dalinar said.  All of this is meaningless if we dont find a way to get the vengeance we all want. You cant tell me you enjoy watching the highprinces squabble, practically ignoring our real purpose in being here. Elhokar fell silent, looking displeased. Unite them . He remembered those words, booming in his head. Elhokar, he said, an idea occurring to him. Do you remember what Sadeas and I spoke of to you when we first came here to war? The specialization of the highprinces? Yes, Elhokar said. In the distant past, each of the ten highprinces in Alethkar had been given a specific charge for the governing of the kingdom. One had been the ultimate law in regard to merchants, and his troops had patrolled the roadways of all ten princedoms. Another had administrated judges and magistrates. Gavilar had been very taken by the idea. He claimed it was a clever device, meant to force the highprinces to work together. Once, this system had forced them to submit to one anothers authority. Things hadnt been done that way in centuries, ever since the fragmenting of Alethkar into ten autonomous princedoms. Elhokar, what if you named me Highprince of War? Dalinar asked. Elhokar didnt laugh; that was a good sign. I thought you and Sadeas decided that the others would revolt if we tried something like that. Perhaps I was wrong about that too. Elhokar appeared to consider it. Finally, the king shook his head. No. They barely accept my leadership. If I did something like this, theyd assassinate me. Id protect you. Bah. You dont even take the present threats on my life seriously. Dalinar sighed. Your Majesty, I do take threats to your life seriously. My scribes and attendants are looking into the strap. And what have they discovered? Well, so far we have nothing conclusive. Nobody has taken credit for trying to kill you, even in rumor. Nobody saw anything suspicious. But Adolin is speaking with leatherworkers. Perhaps hell bring something more substantial. It was cut, Uncle. We will see. You dont believe me, Elhokar said, face growing red. You should be trying to find out what the assassins plan was, rather than pestering me with