paint. One caught in a crack, widening it. I told you, Adolin continued to yell, lowering his arm from his face and slicing into the next pair of Parshendi just before they landed their hammers on him. I said he was an eel! I know! Dalinar yelled back. We walked right into this, Adolin continued, shouting as if he hadnt heard Dalinar. We let him take away our bridges. We let him get us onto the plateau before the second wave of Parshendi arrived. We let him control the scouts. We even suggested the attack pattern that would leave us surrounded if he didnt support us! I know. Dalinars heart twisted inside of him. Sadeas was carrying out a premeditated, carefully planned, and very thorough betrayal. Sadeas hadnt been overwhelmed, hadnt retreated for safety though that was undoubtedly what he would claim when he got back to camp. A disaster, hed say. Parshendi everywhere. Attacking together had upset the balance, andunfortunatelyhed been forced to pull out and leave his friend. Oh, perhaps some of Sadeass men would talk, tell the truth, and other highprinces would undoubtedly know what really happened. But nobody would challenge Sadeas openly. Not after such a decisive and powerful maneuver. The people in the warcamps would go along with it. The other highprinces were too displeased with Dalinar to raise a fuss. The only one who might speak up was Elhokar, and Sadeas had his ear. It wrenched Dalinars heart. Had it all been an act? Could he really have misjudged Sadeas so completely? What of the investigation clearing Dalinar? What of their plans and reminiscences? All lies? I saved your life, Sadeas. Dalinar watched Sadeass banner retreat across the staging plateau. Among that distant group, a rider who wore crimson Shardplate turned and looked back. Sadeas, watching Dalinar fighting for his life. That figure paused for a moment, then turned around and rode on. The Parshendi were surrounding the forward position where Dalinar and Adolin fought just ahead of the army. They were overwhelming his guard. He jumped down and slew another pair of enemies, but earned another blow to his forearm in the process. The Parshendi swarmed around him, and Dalinars guard began to buckle. Pull away! he yelled at Adolin, then began to back toward the army proper. The youth cursed, but did as ordered. Dalinar and Adolin retreated back behind the front line of defense. Dalinar pulled off his cracked helm, panting. Hed been fighting nonstop long enough to get winded, despite his Shardplate. He let one of the guardsmen hand him a waterskin, and Adolin did the same.