Hierocracy. Wed better not find ourselves treading down that path again. What would it matter if people knew how simple the Soulcasters are to use? The principles and gifts of the Almighty are often simple. Shallan barely listened to that last part. Unfortunately, it seemed that Kabsal was as ignorant as she. More ignorant, even. Shed tried the exact method he spoke of, and it didnt work. Perhaps the ardents he knew were lying to protect the secret. Anyway, Kabsal said, I guess thats a tangent. You asked me about stealing the Soulcaster, and rest assured, I wouldnt put you in that position. I was foolish to think of it, and I was shortly forbidden to attempt it. I was ordered to care for your soul and see that you werent corrupted by Jasnahs teachings, and perhaps try to reclaim Jasnahs soul as well. Well, that last one is going to be difficult. I hadnt noticed, he replied dryly. She smiled, though she couldnt quite decide how to feel. I kind of killed the moment, didnt I? Between us? Im glad you did, he said, dusting off his hands. I get carried away, Shallan. At times, I wonder if Im as bad at being an ardent as you are at being proper. I dont want to be presumptuous. Its just that the way you speak, it gets my mind churning, and my tongue starts saying whatever comes to it. And so And so we should call it a day, Kabsal said, standing. I need time to think. Shallan stood as well, holding out her freehand for his assistance; standing up in a sleek Vorin dress was difficult. They were in a section of the gardens where the shalebark wasnt quite so high, so once standing, Shallan could see that the king himself was passing nearby, chatting with a middle-aged ardent who had a long, narrow face. The king often went strolling through the gardens on his midday walk. She waved to him, but the kindly man didnt see her. He was deep in conversation with the ardent. Kabsal turned, noticed the king, then ducked down. What? Shallan said. The king keeps careful track of his ardents. He and Brother Ixil think Im on cataloging duty today. She found herself smiling. Youre scrapping your days work to go on a picnic with me? Yes. I thought you were supposed to spend time with me, she said, folding her arms. To protect my soul.