Your right to court is protected. Were property. A mans rights can be protected at the same time that he is discouraged from exercising them. Ive avoided work, Ive disobeyed my superiorsIn courting you, Ive also courted trouble. I didnt ask you for any of that. You didnt discourage me. She had no response for that, other than to feel a rising worry. A hint of panic, a desire to run away and hide. During her years of near-solitude on her fathers estate, she had never dreamed of a relationship like this one. Is that what this is? she thought, panic swelling. A relationship? Her intentions in coming to Kharbranth had seemed so straightforward. How had she gotten to the point where she risked breaking a mans heart? And, to her shame, she admitted to herself that she would miss the research more than Kabsal. Was she a horrible person for feeling that way? She was fond of him. He was pleasant. Interesting. He looked at her, and there was longing in his eyes. He seemed Stormfather, he seemed to really be in love with her. Shouldnt she be falling in love with him too? She didnt think she was. She was just confused. When they reached the top of the Palanaeums system of lifts, she practically ran out into the Veil. Kabsal followed, but they needed another lift up to Jasnahs alcove, and soon she found herself trapped with him once more. I could come, Kabsal said softly. Return with you to Jah Keved. Shallans panic increased. She barely knew him. Yes, they had chatted frequently, but rarely about the important things. If he left the ardentia, hed be demoted to tenth dahn, almost as low as a darkeyes. Hed be without money or house, in almost as bad a position as her family. Her family. What would her brothers say if she brought a virtual stranger back with her? Another man to become part of their problems, privy to their secrets? I can see from your expression that its not an option, Kabsal said. It seems that Ive misinterpreted some very important things. No, its not that, Shallan said quickly. Its justOh, Kabsal. How can you expect to make sense of my actions when even I cant make sense of them? She touched his arm, turning him toward her. I have been dishonest with you. And with Jasnah. And, most infuriatingly, with myself. Im sorry. He shrugged, obviously trying to feign nonchalance. At least Ill get a sketch. Wont I? She nodded as the lift finally shuddered to a halt. She walked down the dark hallway, Kabsal following with the lanterns. Jasnah looked up appraisingly as