He raised an eyebrow at her. Bad lie? she asked. Terrible, he said. Youre two floors up and about a thousand index numbers off. After I couldnt find you below, I asked the lift porters to take me where they brought you, and they took me here. Jasnahs training can be exhausting, Shallan said. So I sometimes find a quiet corner to relax and compose myself. Its the only time I get to be alone. Kabsal nodded thoughtfully. Better? she asked. Still problematic. You took a break, but for two hours ? Besides, I remember you telling me that Jasnahs training wasnt so terrible. Shed believe me, Shallan said. She thinks shes far more demanding than she is. Orwell, she is demanding. I just dont mind as much as she thinks I do. Very well, he said. But what were you doing down here, then? She bit her lip, causing him to laugh. What? she demanded, blushing. You just look so blasted innocent when you do that! I am innocent. Didnt you just lie to me twice in a row? Innocent, as in the opposite of sophisticated. She grimaced. Otherwise, theyd have been more convincing lies. Come. Walk with me while I fetch Tifandor. If we hurry, I wont have to lie to Jasnah. Fair enough, he said, joining her and strolling around the perimeter of the Palanaeum. The hollow inverted pyramid rose toward the ceiling far above, the four walls expanding outward at a slant. The topmost levels were brighter and easier to make out, tiny lights bobbing along railings in the hands of ardents or scholars. Fifty-seven levels, Shallan said. I cant even imagine how much work it must have been for you to create all this. We didnt create it, Kabsal said. It was here. The main shaft, at least. The Kharbranthians cut out the rooms for the books. This formation is natural ? As natural as cities like Kholinar. Or have you forgotten my demonstration? No. But why didnt you use this place as one of your examples? We havent found the right sand pattern yet, he said. But were sure the Almighty himself made this place, as he did the cities. What about the Dawnsingers? Shallan asked.