natural place to find them. Urithiru is not in Natanatan, Jasnah said, smiling. But it is a good guess, Shallan. Return to your studies. The weapons, Shallan said. Jasnah raised an eyebrow. The Parshendi. They carried beautiful weapons of fine, etched steel. Yet they used skin drums with crude handprints on the sides and lived in huts of stone and crem. Doesnt that strike you as incongruous? Yes. I would certainly describe that as an oddity. Then I assure you, Shallan, Jasnah said. The city is not there. But you are interested in the Shattered Plains. You spoke of them with Brightlord Dalinar through the spanreed. I did. What were the Voidbringers? Now that Jasnah was actually answering, perhaps shed say. What were they really ? Jasnah studied her with a curious expression. Nobody knows for sure. Most scholars consider them, like Urithiru, mere myths, while theologians accept them as counterparts of the Almightymonsters that dwelled in the hearts of men, much as the Almighty once lived there. But Return to your studies, child, Jasnah said, raising her book. Perhaps we will speak of this another time. There was an air of finality about that. Shallan bit her lip, keeping herself from saying something rude just to draw Jasnah back into conversation. She doesnt trust me, she thought. Perhaps with good reason. Youre leaving, Shallan told herself again. Tomorrow. Youre sailing away from this. But that meant she had only one day left. One more day in the grand Palanaeum. One more day with all of these books, all of this power and knowledge. I need a copy of Tifandors biography of your father, Shallan said, poking through the books. I keep seeing it referenced. Its on one of the bottom floors, Jasnah said idly. I might be able to dig out the index number. No need, Shallan said, standing. Ill look it up. I need the practice. As you wish, Jasnah said. Shallan smiled. She knew exactly where the book wasbut the pretense of searching for it would give her time away from Jasnah. And during that time, shed see what she could discover about the Voidbringers on her own.