Kaladin shrugged. Matal blinked, then seemed to realize how badly he wanted that to happen. Suit yourself, he called, rushing across bridge six as the other bridges were pulled up. In seconds, Kaladins team was alone beside the chasm, the army retreating westward. Kaladin smiled broadly. I cant believe it, after all that worrying Men, were free! The others turned to him, confused. Well follow in a short while, Kaladin said eagerly, and Matal will assume were coming. We fall farther and farther behind the army, until were out of sight. Then well turn north, use the bridge to cross the Plains. We can escape northward, and everyone will just assume the Parshendi caught us and slaughtered us! The other bridgemen regarded him with wide eyes. Supplies, Teft said. We have these spheres, Kaladin said, pulling out his pouch. A wealth of them, right here. We can take the armor and weapons from the dead over there and use those to defend ourselves from bandits. It will be hard, but we wont be chased ! The men were starting to grow excited. However, something gave Kaladin pause. What of the wounded bridgemen back in the camp? Ill have to stay behind, Kaladin said.  What?  Moash demanded. Someone will need to, Kaladin said. For the good of our wounded in camp. We cant abandon them. And if I stay behind, I can support the story. Wound me and leave me on one of the plateaus. Sadeas is sure to send scavengers back. Ill tell them my crew was hunted down in retribution for desecrating the Parshendi corpses, our bridge tossed into the chasm. Theyll believe it; theyve seen how the Parshendi hate us. The crew was all standing now, shooting glances at one another. Uncomfortable glances. Were not leaving without you, Sigzil said. Many of the others nodded. Ill follow, Kaladin said. We cant leave those men behind. Kaladin, lad Teft began. We can talk about me later, Kaladin interrupted. Maybe Ill go with you, then sneak back into camp later to rescue the wounded. For now, go salvage from those bodies. They hesitated. Its an order, men!