against the railing to wait. It wasnt long. At precisely seven forty-six in the morningthe locals could use it to set their timepiecesan enormous, sea-blue spren surged from the waters of the bay. It was translucent, and though it appeared to throw out waves as it rose, that was illusory. The actual surface of the bay wasnt disturbed. It takes the shape of a large jet of water, Axies thought, creating a tattoo along an open portion of his leg, scribing the words. The center is of the deepest blue, like the ocean depths, though the outer edges are a lighter shade. Judging by the masts of the nearby ships, Id say that the spren has grown to a height of at least a hundred feet. One of the largest Ive ever seen. The column sprouted four long arms that came down around the bay, forming fingers and thumbs. They landed on golden pedestals that had been placed there by the people of the city. The spren came at the same time every day, without fail. They called it by name, Cusicesh, the Protector. Some worshipped it as a god. Most simply accepted it as part of the city. It was unique. One of the few types of spren he knew of that seemed to have only a single member. But what kind of spren is it? Axies wrote, fascinated. It has formed a face, looking eastward. Directly toward the Origin. That face is shifting, bewilderingly quick. Different human faces appear on the end of its stumplike neck, one after another in blurred succession. The display lasted a full ten minutes. Did any of the faces repeat? They changed so quickly, he couldnt tell. Some seemed male, others female. Once the display was finished, Cusicesh retreated down into the bay, sending up phantom waves again. Axies felt drained, as if something had been leeched from him. That was reported to be a common reaction. Was he imagining it because it was expected? Or was it real? As he considered, a street urchin scrambled past and grabbed his wrap, yanking it free and laughing to himself. He tossed it to some friends and they scrambled away. Axies shook his head. What a bother, he said as people around him began to gasp and mutter. There are guards nearby, I assume? Ah yes. Four of them. Wonderful. The four were already stalking toward him, golden hair falling around their shoulders, expressions stern. Well, he said to himself, making a final notation as one of the guards grabbed him on the shoulder. It appears Ill have another chance to search for captivityspren. Odd, how those had eluded him all these years, despite his numerous incarcerations. He was beginning to consider them mythological.