He was talking to that lighteyes. Lamaril? She nodded. Lamarils his superior, Kaladin said as he walked into the shade of Bridge Fours barrack. He leaned against the wall, looking over at his men by the water barrel. They talked to one another now. Joked. Laughed. They went out drinking together in the evenings. Stormfather, but he never thought hed be glad that the men under his command went drinking. I didnt like their expressions, Syl said, sitting down on Kaladins shoulder. Dark. Like thunderclouds. I didnt hear what they were saying. I noticed them too late. But I dont like it, particularly that Lamaril. Kaladin nodded slowly. You dont trust him either? Syl asked. Hes a lighteyes. That was enough. So we So we do nothing, Kaladin said. I cant respond unless they try something. And if I spend all of my energy worrying about what they might do, I wont be able to solve the problems were facing right now. What he didnt add was his real worry. If Gaz or Lamaril decided to have Kaladin killed, there was little he could to do to stop them. True, bridgemen were rarely executed for anything other than failing to run their bridge. But even in an honest force like Amarams, there had been rumors of trumped-up charges and fake evidence. In Sadeass undisciplined, barely regulated camp, nobody would blink if Kaladina shash -branded slavewere strung up on some nebulous charge. They could leave him for the highstorm, washing their hands of his death, claiming that the Stormfather had chosen his fate. Kaladin stood up straight and walked toward the carpentry section of the lumberyard. The craftsmen and their apprentices were hard at work cutting lengths of wood for spear hafts, bridges, posts, or furniture. The craftsmen nodded to Kaladin as he passed. They were familiar with him now, used to his odd requests, like pieces of lumber long enough for four men to hold and run with to practice keeping cadence with one another. He found a half- finished bridge. It had eventually grown out of that one plank that Kaladin had used. Kaladin knelt down, inspecting the wood. A group of men worked with a large saw just to his right, slicing thin rounds off a log. Those would probably become chair seats. He ran his fingers along the smooth hardwood. All mobile bridges were made of a kind of wood called makam. It had a deep brown color, the grain