workers are having an increasingly difficult time. They dont have a windspren guiding them, Kaladin thought. Then why would you want to discourage me? I could get more of this for you. Well, yes, the apothecary said. But Its cheaper if you do it yourself, Kaladin said, leaning down. But this way you have a clean trail. I provide the sap, charging one skymark. If the lighteyes ever discover what the apothecaries have been doing, you can claim ignoranceall you know is that some bridgeman was selling you sap, and you resold it to the army at a reasonable markup. That seemed to appeal to the old man. Well, perhaps I wont ask too many questions about how you harvested this. Your business, young man. Your business indeed. He shuffled to the back of his store, returning with a box of bandages. Kaladin accepted it and left the shop without a word. Arent you worried? Syl said, floating up beside his head as he entered the afternoon sunlight. If Gaz discovers what youre doing, you could get into trouble. What more could they do to me? Kaladin asked. I doubt theyd consider this a crime worth stringing me up for. Syl looked backward, forming into little more than a cloud with the faint suggestion of a female form. I cant decide if its dishonest or not. Its not dishonest; its business. He grimaced. Lavis grain is sold the same way. Grown by the farmers and sold at a pittance to merchants, who carry it to the cities and sell it to other merchants, who sell it to people for four or five times what it was originally bought for. So why did it bother you? Syl asked, frowning as they avoided a troop of soldiers, one of whom tossed the pit of a palafruit at Kaladins head. The soldiers laughed. Kaladin rubbed his temple. Ive still got some strange scruples about charging for medical care because of my father. He sounds like hes a very generous man. For all the good it did him. Of course, in a way, Kaladin was just as bad. During his early days as a slave, hed have done almost anything for a chance to walk around unsupervised like this. The army perimeter was guarded, but if he could sneak the knobweed in, he could probably find a way to sneak himself out. With that sapphire mark, he even had money to aid him. Yes, he had the slave brand, but some quick if painful work with a knife could turn that into a battle scar instead. He could talk and fight like a soldier, so it would be plausible. Hed be taken for a deserter, but he could live with that.