parents. I cant go off and leave you here. Were a family. Hes trying to strangle us, Kaladin said, glancing at Tien. Talking with his brother had made him feel a lot better, but his objections were still there. Nobody pays for healing, and I know nobody will pay you for work anymore. What kind of value does Father get for those spheres he spends anyway? Vegetables at ten times the regular price, moldy grain at double? Hesina smiled. Observant. Father taught me to notice details. The eyes of a surgeon. Well, she said, eyes twinkling, did your surgeons eyes notice the first time we spent one of the spheres? Sure, Kaladin said. It was the day after the hunting accident. Father had to buy new cloth to make bandages. And did we need new bandages? Well, no. But you know how Father is. He doesnt like it when we start to run even a little low. And so he spent one of those spheres, Hesina said. That hed hoarded for months and months, butting heads with the citylord over them. Not to mention going to such lengths to steal them in the first place, Kaladin thought. But you know all about that. He glanced at Tien, who was watching the sky again. So far as Kal knew, his brother hadnt discovered the truth yet. So your father resisted so long, Hesina said, only to finally break and spend a sphere on some cloth bandages we wouldnt need for months. She had a point. Why had his father suddenly decided toHes letting Roshone think hes winning, Kaladin said with surprise, looking back at her. Hesina smiled slyly. Roshone would have found a way to get retribution eventually. It wouldnt have been easy. Your father ranks high as a citizen, and has the right of inquest. He did save Roshones life, and many could testify to the severity of Rillirs wounds. But Roshone would have found a way. Unless he felt hed broken us. Kaladin turned toward the mansion. Though it was hidden by the shroud of rain, he could just make out the tents of the army camped on the field below. What would it be like to live as a soldier, often exposed to storms and rain, to winds and tempests? Once Kaladin would have been intrigued, but the life of a spearman had no call for him now. His mind was filled with diagrams of muscles and memorized lists of symptoms and diseases. Well keep spending the spheres, Hesina said. One every few weeks. Partially to live, though my family has offered supplies. More to keep Roshone thinking that were bending. And then, we send you away. Unexpectedly. Youll