away before his feet fell. It had been nearly six months since Shallans departure. This morning, theyd had word from her via spanreed that shed succeeded in the first part of her plan, becoming Jasnah Kholins ward. And so, his baby sisterwho before this had never left their estateswas preparing to rob the most important woman in the world. Walking down the steps was depressingly hard work for him. Twenty-three years old, he thought, and already a cripple. He still felt a constant, latent ache. The break had been bad, and the surgeon had nearly decided to cut off the entire leg. Perhaps he could be thankful that hadnt proven necessary, though he would always walk with a cane. Scrak was playing with something in the sitting green, a place where cultivated grass was grown and kept free of vines. The large axehound rolled about, gnawing at the object, antennae pulled back flat against her skull. Scrak, Balat said, hobbling forward, what have you got there, girl? The axehound looked up at her master, antennae cocking upward. The hound trumped with two echoing voices overlapping one another, then went back to playing. Blasted creature, Balat thought fondly, never would obey properly. Hed been breeding axehounds since his youth, and had discoveredas had many before himthat the smarter an animal was, the more likely it was to disobey. Oh, Scrak was loyal, but shed ignore you on the little things. Like a young child trying to prove her independence. As he got closer, he saw that Scrak had managed to catch a songling. The fist-sized creature was shaped like a peaked disc with four arms that reached out from the sides and scraped rhythms along the top. Four squat legs underneath normally held it to a rock wall, though Scrak had chewed those off. She had two of the arms off too, and had managed to crack the shell. Balat almost took it away to pull the other two arms off, but decided it was best to let Scrak have her fun. Scrak set the songling down and looked up at Balat, her antennae rising inquisitively. She was sleek and lean, six legs extending before her as she sat on her haunches. Axehounds didnt have shells or skin; instead, their body was covered with some fusion of the two, smooth to the touch and more pliable than true carapace, but harder than skin and made of interlocking sections. The axehounds angular face seemed curious, her deep black eyes regarding Balat. She trumped softly. Balat smiled, reaching down and scratching behind the axehounds ear holes. The animal leaned against himshe probably weighed as much as he did. The bigger axehounds came up to a mans waist, though Scrak was of a smaller,