It looked to Rysn like garbage that hadfor some inexplicable reasonbeen Soulcast into metal. Ah, Thresh said, squatting down to inspect the box. Wonderful! Not a bit of it was mined, Vstim said. No rocks were broken or smelted to get this metal, Thresh. It was Soulcast from shells, bark, or branches. I have a document sealed by five separate Thaylen notaries attesting to it. You neednt have done such a thing as this, Thresh said. You have once earned our trust in this matter long ago. Id rather be proper about it, Vstim said. A merchant who is careless with contracts is one who finds himself with enemies instead of friends. Thresh stood up, clapping three times. The men in brown with the downcast eyes lowered the back of a wagon, revealing crates. The others who visit us, Thresh noted, walking to the wagon. All they seem to care about are horses. Everyone wishes to buy horses. But never you, my friend. Why is that? Too hard to care for, Vstim said, walking with Thresh. And theres too often a poor return on the investment, valuable as they are. But not with these? Thresh said, picking up one of the light crates. There was something alive inside. Not at all, Vstim said. Chickens fetch a good price, and theyre easy to care for, assuming you have feed. We brought you plenty, Thresh said. I cannot believe you buy these from us. They are not worth nearly so much as you outsiders think. And you give us metal for them! Metal that bears no stain of broken rock. A miracle. Vstim shrugged. Those scraps are practically worthless where I come from. Theyre made by ardents practicing with Soulcasters. They cant make food, because if you get it wrong, its poisonous. So they turn garbage into metal and throw it away. But it can be forged! Why forge the metal, Vstim said, when you can carve an object from wood in the precise shape you want, then Soulcast it? Thresh just shook his head, bemused. Rysn watched with her own share of confusion. This was the craziest trade exchange shed ever seen. Normally, Vstim argued and haggled like a crushkiller. But here, he freely revealed that his wares were worthless! In fact, as conversation proceeded, the two both took pains to explain how worthless their goods were. Eventually, they came to an agreementthough Rysn couldnt grasp howand shook hands on the deal. Some of Threshs soldiers began to unload their boxes of chickens, cloth, and exotic dried meats.