That was before the Almighty lied to me, Dalinar said. He still didnt know what to think of that. Much of what I told you, I learned from The Way of Kings . But I didnt understand something. Nohadon wrote the book at the end of his life, after creating orderafter forcing the kingdoms to unite, after rebuilding lands that had fallen in the Desolation. The book was written to embody an ideal. It was given to people who already had momentum in doing what was right. That was my mistake. Before any of this can work, our people need to have a minimum level of honor and dignity. Adolin said something to me a few weeks back, something profound. He asked me why I forced my sons to live up to such high expectations, but let others go about their errant ways without condemnation. I have been treating the other highprinces and their lighteyes like adults. An adult can take a principle and adapt it to his needs. But were not ready for that yet. Were children. And when youre teaching a child, you require him to do what is right until he grows old enough to make his own choices. The Silver Kingdoms didnt begin as unified, glorious bastions of honor. They were trained that way, raised up, like youths nurtured to maturity. He strode forward, kneeling down beside Elhokar. The king continued to rub his chest, his Shardplate looking strange with the central piece missing. Were going to make something of Alethkar, nephew, Dalinar said softly. The highprinces gave their oaths to Gavilar, but now ignore those oaths. Well, its time to stop letting them. Were going to win this war, and were going to turn Alethkar into a place that men will envy again. Not because of our military prowess, but because people here are safe and because justice reigns. Were going to do itor you and I are going to die in the attempt. You say that with eagerness. Because I finally know exactly what to do, Dalinar said, standing up straight. I was trying to be Nohadon the peacemaker. But Im not. Im the Blackthorn, a general and a warlord. I have no talent for back-room politicking, but I am very good at training troops. Starting tomorrow, every man in each of these camps will be mine. As far as Im concerned, theyre all raw recruits. Even the highprinces. Assuming I make the proclamation. You will, Dalinar said. And in return, I promise to find out who is trying to kill you. Elhokar snorted, beginning to remove his Shardplate piece by piece. After that announcement goes out, discovering whos trying to kill me will become easy. You can put every name in the warcamps on the list! Dalinars smile widened. At least we wont have to guess, then. Dont be so