been swapped for a different Soulcaster? Could it be, despite all odds, that Jasnah just hadnt tried to use the Soulcaster? Shallan needed to leave before too long. But if she left before Jasnah discovered the swap, she risked having the woman try her Soulcaster just after Shallan vanished, bringing suspicion directly on her. The anxious waiting was driving Shallan near to madness. Finally, Jasnah nodded, then returned to her research. You have nothing to say? Shallan said. I just accused you of murder. No, Jasnah said, murder is a legal definition. You said I killed unethically. You think Im wrong, I assume? You are, Jasnah said. But I accept that you believe what you are saying and have put rational thought behind it. I have looked over your notes, and I believe you understand the various philosophies. In some cases, I think that you were quite insightful in your interpretation of them. The lesson was instructive. She opened her book. Then thats it? Of course not, Jasnah said. We will study philosophy further in the future; for now, Im satisfied that you have established a solid foundation in the topic. But I still decided you were wrong. I still think theres an absolute Truth out there. Yes, Jasnah said, and it took you two weeks of struggling to come to that conclusion. Jasnah looked up, meeting Shallans eyes. It wasnt easy, was it? No. And you still wonder, dont you? Yes. That is enough. Jasnah narrowed her eyes slightly, a consoling smile appearing on her lips. If it helps you wrestle with your feelings, child, understand that I was trying to do good. I sometimes wonder if I should accomplish more with my Soulcaster. She turned back to her reading. You are free for the rest of the day. Shallan blinked. What? Free, Jasnah said. You may go. Do as you please. Youll spend it drawing beggars and barmaids, I suspect, but you may choose. Be off with you. Yes, Brightness! Thank you. Jasnah waved in dismissal and Shallan grabbed her portfolio and hastened from the alcove. She hadnt had any free time since the day shed gone sketching on her own in the gardens. Shed been gently chided for that; Jasnah had left her in her rooms to rest, not go out sketching.