their backs. The enemy army was almost finished. The field between the two forces was bare, flat slickrock, remarkably even and smooth, broken only by occasional rockbuds. It would have made a good pasture. The warm wind blew in Cenns face, thick with the watery scents of last nights highstorm. Dallet! a voice said. A man walked up through the ranks, carrying a shortspear that had two leather knife sheaths strapped to the haft. The newcomer was a young man perhaps four years older than Cenns fifteenbut he was taller by several fingers than even Dallet. He wore the common leathers of a spearman, but under them was a pair of dark trousers. That wasnt supposed to be allowed. His black Alethi hair was shoulder-length and wavy, his eyes a dark brown. He also had knots of white cord on the shoulders of his jerkin, marking him as a squadleader. The thirty men around Cenn snapped to attention, raising their spears in salute. This is Kaladin Stormblessed? Cenn thought incredulously. This youth? Dallet, were soon going to have a new recruit, Kaladin said. He had a strong voice. I need you to He trailed off as he noticed Cenn. He found his way here just a few minutes ago, sir, Dallet said with a smile. Ive been gettin him ready. Well done, Kaladin said. I paid good money to get that boy away from Gare. That mans so incompetent he might as well be fighting for the other side. What? Cenn thought. Why would anyone pay to get me? What do you think about the field? Kaladin asked. Several of the other spearmen nearby raised hands to shade from the sun, scanning the rocks. That dip next to the two boulders on the far right? Dallet asked. Kaladin shook his head. Footings too rough. Aye. Perhaps it is. What about the short hill over there? Far enough to avoid the first fall, close enough to not get too far ahead. Kaladin nodded, though Cenn couldnt see what they were looking at. Looks good. The rest of you louts hear that? Dallet shouted. The men raised their spears high. Keep an eye on the new boy, Dallet, Kaladin said. He wont know the signs. Of course, Dallet said, smiling. Smiling! How could the man smile? The enemy army was blowing horns. Did that mean they were ready? Even though Cenn had just relieved himself, he felt a trickle of urine run down his leg. Stay firm, Kaladin said, then trotted down the front line to talk to the next