Teft snorted. Thats because you dont understand how lighteyes think. Highprinces dont just want to win the battle, they want to win it by themselves. I wish Id been recruited in his army instead, Moash said, almost reverent. The soldiers armor gleamed, their ranks obviously well-practiced. Dalinarthe Blackthornhad done an even better job than Amaram at cultivating a reputation for honesty. People knew of him all the way back in Hearthstone, but Kaladin understood the kinds of corruption a well-polished breastplate could hide. Though, he thought, that man who protected the whore on the street, he wore blue. Adolin, Dalinars son. He seemed genuinely selfless in his defense of the woman. Kaladin set his jaw, casting aside those thoughts. He would not be taken in again. He would not . The fighting grew brutal for a short time, but the Parshendi were overwhelmedsmashed between two opposing forces. Soon, Kaladins team led a victorious group of soldiers back to the camps for celebration. Kaladin rolled the sphere between his fingers. The otherwise pure glass had cooled with a thin line of bubbles permanently frozen along one side. The bubbles were tiny spheres of their own, catching light. He was on chasm scavenging duty. Theyd gotten back from the plateau assault so quickly that Hashal, in defiance of logic or mercy, had sent them down into the chasm that very day. Kaladin continued to turn the sphere in his fingers. Hanging in the very center of it was a large emerald cut in a round shape, with dozens of tiny facets along the sides. A small rim of suspended bubbles clung to the side of gemstone, as if longing to be near its brilliance. Bright, crystalline green Stormlight shone from inside the glass, lighting Kaladins fingers. An emerald broam, the highest denomination of sphere. Worth hundreds of lesser spheres. To bridgemen, this was a fortune. A strangely distant one, for spending it was impossible. Kaladin thought he could see some of the storms tempest inside that rock. The light was likeit was like part of the storm, captured by the emerald. The light wasnt perfectly steady; it just seemed that way compared with the flickering of candles, torches, or lamps. Holding it close, Kaladin could see the light swirling, raging. What do we do with it? Moash asked from Kaladins side. Rock stood at