two comrades watched the sides of the streets, halberds ready. Even with her hair disheveled and her makeup smudged, she was quite pretty. Thank you, Brightlord. Perhaps I could interest you? There would be no charge. The young brightlord raised an eyebrow. Tempting, he said, but my father would kill me. He has this thing about the old ways. A pity, she said, pulling away from him, awkwardly covering her chest as she slipped her arm into its sleeve. She took out a glove for her safehand. Your father is quite prudish, then? You might say that. He turned toward Kaladin. Ho, bridgeboy. Bridgeboy? This lordling looked to be just a few years older than Kaladin himself. Run and give word to Brightlord Reral Makoram, the Shardbearer said, flipping something across the street toward Kaladin. A sphere. It sparkled in the sunlight before Kaladin caught it. Hes in the Sixth Battalion. Tell him that Adolin Kholin wont make todays meeting. Ill send word to reschedule another time. Kaladin looked down at the sphere. An emerald chip. More than he normally earned in two weeks. He looked up; the young brightlord and his two men were already retreating, the whore following. You rushed to help her, a voice said. He looked up as Syl floated down to rest on his shoulder. That was very noble of you. Those others got there first, Kaladin said. And one of them a lighteyes, no less. What was in it for him? You still tried to help. Foolishly, Kaladin said. What would I have done? Fought down a lighteyes? That would have drawn half the camps soldiers down on me, and the whore would just have been beaten more for causing such a fracas. She could have ended up dead for my efforts. He fell silent. That sounded too much like what hed been saying before. He couldnt give in to assuming he was cursed, or had bad luck, or whatever it was. Superstition never got a man anywhere. But he had to admit, the pattern was disturbing. If he acted as he always had before, how could he expect different results? He had to try something new. Change, somehow. This was going to take more thought. Kaladin began walking back toward the lumberyard. Arent you going to do what the brightlord asked? Syl said. She didnt show any lingering effects of her sudden fright; it was as if she wanted to pretend it hadnt happened. After how he treated me? Kaladin snapped.