Gather up some of those spears, he said. Set them aside. Well need them for training. But we have to turn them in, Malop said. Not if we dont take them with us up out of the chasm, Kaladin said. Each time we come scavenging, well save a few spears and stash them down here. It shouldnt take long to gather enough to practice with. How will we get them out when its time to escape? Teft asked, rubbing his chin. Spears left down here wont do these lads much good once the real fighting starts. Ill find a way to get them up, Kaladin said. You say things like that a lot, Skar noted. Leave off, Skar, Moash said. He knows what hes doing. Kaladin blinked. Had Moash just defended him? Skar flushed. I didnt mean it like that, Kaladin. Im just asking, thats all. I understand. Its Kaladin trailed off as Syl flitted down into the chasm in the form of a curling ribbon. She landed on a rock outcropping on the wall, taking on her female form. I found another group of bodies. Theyre mostly Parshendi. Any bows? Kaladin asked. Several of the bridgemen gawked at him until they saw him staring into the air. Then they nodded knowingly to one another. I think so, Syl said. Its just down this way. Not too far. The bridgemen had mostly finished with these bodies. Gather up the things, Kaladin said. Ive found us another place to scavenge. We need to gather as much as we can, then stash some in a chasm where it has a good chance of not being washed away. The bridgemen picked up their findings, slinging sacks over their shoulders and each man hefting a spear or two. Within moments, they headed down the dank chasm bottom, following Syl. They passed clefts in the ancient rock walls where old, storm-washed bones had gotten lodged, creating a mound of moss- covered femurs, tibia, skulls, and ribs. There wasnt much salvage among them. After about a quarter-hour, they came to the place Syl had found. A scattered group of Parshendi dead lay in heaps, mixed with the occasional Alethi in blue. Kaladin knelt beside one of the human bodies. He recognized Dalinar Kholins stylized glyphpair sewn on the coat. Why had Dalinars army joined Sadeass in battle? What had changed? Kaladin pointed for the men to begin scavenging from the Alethi while he walked over to one of the Parshendi corpses. It was much fresher than Dalinars man. They didnt find nearly as many Parshendi corpses as they did Alethi. Not only were there fewer of them in any given battle, but they were less likely to