pinned up, the rest hanging down the back of her violet dress to brush the top of the stool. She was a historian of note, and had requested permission to record meetings like this one; she planned to scribe a history of the war. Sir, Teleb said. A chasmfiend crawled atop the plateau here less than a quarter hour ago. He pointed to the battle map, which had glyphs marking each plateau. Dalinar stepped up to it, a group of his officers gathering around him. How far would you say that is? Dalinar asked, rubbing his chin. Perhaps two hours, Teleb said, indicating a route one of his men had drawn on the map. Sir, I think we have a good chance at this one. Brightlord Aladar will have to traverse six unclaimed plateaus to reach the contested area, while we have a nearly direct line. Brightlord Sadeas would have trouble, as hed have to work his way around several large chasms too wide to cross with bridges. Ill bet he wont even try for it. Dalinar did, indeed, have the most direct line. He hesitated, though. It had been months since hed last gone on a plateau run. His attention had been diverted, his troops needed for protecting roadways and patrolling the large markets that had grown up outside the warcamps. And now, Adolins questions weighed upon him, pressing him down. It seemed like a terrible time to go out to battle. No, he thought. No, I need to do this. Winning a plateau skirmish would do much for his troops morale, and would help discredit the rumors in camp. We march! Dalinar declared. A few of the officers whooped in excitement, an extreme show of emotion for the normally reserved Alethi. And your son, Brightlord? Teleb asked. Hed heard of the confrontation between them. Dalinar doubted there was a person in all ten warcamps who hadnt heard of it. Send for him, Dalinar said firmly. Adolin probably needed this as much as, or more than, Dalinar did. The officers scattered. Dalinars armor bearers entered a moment later. It had only been a few minutes since the horns had sounded, but after six years of fighting, the machine of war ran smoothly when battle called. From outside, he heard the horns third set begin, calling his forces to battle. The armor bearers inspected his bootschecking to be certain the laces were tightthen brought a long padded vest to throw over his uniform. Next, they set the sabatonsarmor for his bootson the floor before him. They encased his boots entirely and had a rough surface on the bottoms that seemed to cling to rock. The interiors glowed with the light of the sapphires in their indented pockets.