men, bloodied, getting sorted into new squads and sent back out onto the field. Kaladin moved through them, searching for the squad that had been created out of the messenger boys. He found Dalar first. The lanky, three-fingered sergeant of the reserves stood beside a tall post bearing a pair of flapping triangular banners. He was assigning newly made squads to fill out losses in the companies fighting below. Kaladin could still hear the yells. You, Dalar said, pointing at Kaladin. Squad reassignment is in that direction. Get moving! I need to find the squad made from messenger boys, Kaladin said. Why in Damnation do you want to know that? How should I know? Kaladin said, shrugging, trying to remain calm. I just follow orders. Dalar grunted. Brightlord Shelers company. Southeast side. You can Kaladin was already running. This wasnt supposed to happen. Tien was supposed to stay safe. Stormfather. It hadnt even been four months yet! He made his way to the southeast side of the hill and searched out a banner flapping a quarter of the way down the incline. The stark black glyphpair read shesh lerel Shelers company. Surprised at his own determination, Kaladin brushed past the soldiers guarding the hilltop and found himself on the battlefield again. Things looked better over here. Shelers company was holding its ground, although assaulted by a wave of enemies. Kaladin dashed down the incline, skidding in places, sliding on blood. His fear had vanished. It had been replaced by worry for his brother. He arrived at the company line just as enemy squads were assaulting. He tried to scramble farther behind the lines to search for Tien, but he was caught in the wave of attacks. He stumbled to the side, joining a squad of spearmen. The enemy was on them in a second. Kaladin held his spear in two hands, standing at the edge of the other spearmen and trying not to get in their way. He didnt really know what he was doing. He barely knew enough to use his shieldmate for protection. The exchange happened quickly, and Kaladin made only a single thrust. The enemy was rebuffed, and he managed to avoid taking a wound. He stood, panting, gripping his spear. You, an authoritative voice said. A man was pointing at Kaladin, knots at his shoulders. The squadleader. About time my team got some of those reinforcements. For a time there, I thought Varth was going to get every man. Wheres your shield?