He knew hed exposed himself in attacking. There was nothing to do but throw his arm up as the other beast leapt on him, slashing his forehead and his arm, biting his shoulder. Dalinar screamed, slamming the table leg again and again at the beasts head. He tried forcing the creature back, but it was terribly strong. So Dalinar let himself slip to the ground and kicked upward, tossing the beast over his head. The fangs ripped free of Dalinars shoulder with a spray of blood. The beast hit the floor in a mess of black legs. Dizzy, Dalinar forced himself to his feet and fell into his stance. Always keep the stance. The creature got to its feet at about the same time, and Dalinar ignored the pain, ignored the blood, letting the Thrill give him focus. He leveled the poker. The table leg had fallen from his blood-slick fingers. The beast crouched, then charged. Dalinar let the fluid nature of Smokestance direct him, stepping to the side and smashing the poker into the beasts legs. It tripped as Dalinar turned around, wielding his poker with both hands and slamming it directly down into the creatures back. The powerful blow broke the skin, passed through the creatures body, and hit the stone floor. The creature struggled, legs working in effectively, as smoke hissed out the holes in its back and stomach. Dalinar stepped away, wiping blood from his forehead, leaving the weapon to fall to the side and clang to the ground, still impaling the beast.  Three Gods , Heb, the woman whispered. He turned to find her looking completely shocked as she stared at the deflating carcasses. I should have helped, she mumbled, should have grabbed something to hit them. But you were so fast. Itit was just a few heartbeats. WhereHow? She focused on him. Ive never seen anything like it, Heb. You fought like alike one of the Radiants themselves. Where did you learn that? Dalinar didnt answer. He pulled off his shirt, grimacing as the pain of his wounds returned. Only the shoulder was immediately dangerous, but it was bad; his left arm was growing numb. He ripped the shirt in half, tying one portion around his gashed right forearm, then wadded the rest and pressed it against his shoulder. He walked over and pulled the poker free of the deflated body, which now resembled a black silk sack. Then he moved to the window. The other homes showed signs of being attacked, fires burning, faint screams hanging on the wind. We need to get someplace safe, he said. Is there a cellar nearby? A what? Cave in the rock, man-made or natural.