who she was. But she was coming to realize that she hadnt known who she was. Not until she left Jah Keved and everything familiar, everything shed been expected to be. Her sketching grew more and more fervent. She finished the figures and moved to the background. Quick, bold lines became the floor and the archway behind. A scribbled dark smudge for the side of the desk, casting a shadow. Crisp, thin lines for the lantern sitting on the floor. Sweeping, breezelike lines to form the legs and robes of the creature standing behind Shallan froze, fingers drawing an unintended line of charcoal, breaking away from the figure shed sketched directly behind Kabsal. A figure that wasnt really there, a figure with a sharp, angular symbol hovering above its collar instead of a head. Shallan stood, throwing back her chair, sketchpad and charcoal pencil clutched in the fingers of her freehand. Shallan? Kabsal said, standing. Shed done it again. Why? The peace shed begun to feel during the sketching evaporated in a heartbeat, and her heart started to race. The pressures returned. Kabsal. Jasnah. Her brothers. Decisions, choices, problems. Is everything all right? Kabsal said, taking a step toward her. Im sorry, she said. II made a mistake. He frowned. To the side, Jasnah looked up, brow wrinkled. Its all right, Kabsal said. Look, lets have some bread and jam. We can calm down, then you could finish it. I dont care about a I need to go, Shallan cut in, feeling suffocated. Im sorry. She brushed past the dumbfounded ardent, hurrying from the alcove, giving a wide berth to the place where the figure stood in her sketch. What was wrong with her? She rushed to the lift, calling for the parshmen to lower her. She glanced over her shoulder. Kabsal stood in the hallway, looking after her. Shallan reached the lift, drawing pad clutched in her hand, her heart racing. Calm yourself, she thought, leaning back against the lift platforms wooden railing as the parshmen began to take her down. She looked up at the empty landing above her. And found herself blinking, memorizing that scene. She began sketching again. She drew with concise motions, sketchpad held against her safearm. For illumination, she had just two very small spheres at either side, where the taut ropes quivered. She moved without thought, just drawing , staring upward. She looked down at what she had drawn. Two figures stood on the landing