by the weight of House Davars situation, her part in it, and the secret she now carried, hidden ten heartbeats away. Ho, young miss! a voice called. She turned, shocked to see Yalb standing up on a rocky shelf a short distance from the Conclave entrance. A group of men in guard uniforms sat on the rock around him. Yalb? she said, aghast. He should have returned to his ship hours ago. She hurried over to stand below the short stone outcropping. Why are you still here? Oh, he said, grinning, I found myself a game of kabers here with these fine, upstanding gentlemen of the city guard. Figured officers of the law were right unlikely to cheat me, so we entered into a friendly-type game while I waited. But you didnt need to wait. Didnt need to win eighty chips off these fellows neither, Yalb said with a laugh. But I did both! The men sitting around him looked far less enthusiastic. Their uniforms were orange tabards tied about the middle with white sashes. Well, I suppose I should be leading you back to the ship, then, Yalb said, reluctantly gathering up the spheres in the pile at his feet. They glowed with a variety of hues. Their light was smalleach was only a chipbut it was impressive winnings. Shallan stepped back as Yalb hopped off the rock shelf. His companions protested his departure, but he gestured to Shallan. Youd have me leave a lighteyed woman of her stature to walk back to the ship on her own? I figured you for men of honor! That quieted their protests. Yalb chuckled to himself, bowing to Shallan and leading her away down the path. He had a twinkle to his eyes. Stormfather, but its fun to win against lawmen. Ill have free drinks at the docks once this gets around. You shouldnt gamble, Shallan said. You shouldnt try to guess the future. I didnt give you that sphere so you could waste it on such practices. Yalb laughed. It aint gambling if you know youre going to win, young miss. You cheated ? she hissed, horrified. She glanced back at the guardsmen, who had settled down to continue their game, lit by the spheres on the stones before them. Not so loud! Yalb said in a low voice. However, he seemed very pleased with himself. Cheating four guardsmen, now thats a trick. Hardly believe I managed it!