defeated enemies, the result was the same. Shallan could believe that some peoplesome scholars, evenmight believe that the Voidbringers still existed, haunting mankind. But Jasnah the skeptic? Jasnah, who denied the existence of the Almighty? Could the woman really be so twisted as to deny the existence of God, but accept the existence of his mythological enemies? A knock came at the outer door. Shallan jumped, raising her hand to her breast. She hurriedly replaced the notebooks on the desk in the same order and orientation. Then, flustered, she hurried out to the door. Jasnah wouldnt knock, you silly fool, she told herself, unlocking and opening the door a crack. Kabsal stood outside. The handsome, lighteyed ardent held up a basket. Ive heard reports that you have the day free. He shook the basket temptingly. Would you like some jam? Shallan calmed herself, then glanced back at Jasnahs open quarters. She really should investigate more. She turned to Kabsal, meaning to tell him no, but his eyes were so inviting. That hint of a smile on his face, that good-natured and relaxed posture. If Shallan went with Kabsal, maybe she could ask him what he knew regarding Soulcasters. That wasnt what decided it for her, however, The truth was, she needed to relax. Shed been so on edge lately, brain stuffed with philosophy, every spare moment spent trying to make the Soulcaster work. Was it any wonder she was hearing voices? Id love some jam, she declared. Truthberry jam, Kabsal said, holding up the small green jar. Its Azish. Legends there say that those who consume the berries speak only the truth until the next sunset. Shallan raised an eyebrow. They were seated on cushions atop a blanket in the Conclave gardens, not far from where shed first experimented with the Soulcaster. And is it true? Hardly, Kabsal said, opening the jar. The berries are harmless. But the leaves and stalks of the truthberry plant, if burned, give off a smoke that makes people intoxicated and euphoric. It appears that peoples often gathered the stalks for making fires. Theyd eat the berries around the campfire and have a rather interesting night. Its a wonder Shallan began, then bit her lip. What? he prodded.