Jasnah quieted her with a wave of the hand. She stepped aside as a parshman entered Shallans alcove, carrying a chair. He placed it beside Shallans desk, and Jasnah glided over and sat. Shallan tried to judge Jasnahs mood, but the older womans emotions were impossible to read. I honestly didnt want to disturb you. I bribed the servants to tell me if you returned to the Veil, Jasnah said idly, picking up one of Shallans tomes, reading the title. I didnt want to be interrupted again. I Shallan looked down, blushing furiously. Dont bother apologizing, Jasnah said. She looked tired; more tired than Shallan felt. Jasnah picked through the books. A fine selection. You chose well. It wasnt really much of a choice, Shallan said. It was just about all the merchant had. You intended to study their contents quickly, I assume? Jasnah said musingly. Try to impress me one last time before I left Kharbranth? Shallan hesitated, then nodded. A clever ploy. I should have put a time restriction on your reapplication. She looked at Shallan, glancing her over. You are very determined. That is good. And I know why you wish so desperately to be my ward. Shallan started. She knew ? Your house has many enemies, Jasnah continued, and your father is reclusive. It will be difficult for you to marry well without a tactically sound alliance. Shallan relaxed, though she tried to keep it from showing. Let me see your satchel, Jasnah said. Shallan frowned, resisting the urge to pull it close. Brightness? Jasnah held out her hand. You recall what I said about repeating myself? Reluctantly, Shallan handed it over. Jasnah carefully removed its contents, neatly lining up the brushes, pencils, pens, jar of lacquer, ink, and solvent. She placed the stacks of paper, the notebooks, and the finished pictures in a line. Then she got out Shallans money pouches, noting their emptiness. She glanced at the goblet lamp, counting its contents. She raised an eyebrow. Next, she began to look through Shallans pictures. First the loose-leaf ones, where she lingered on Shallans picture of Jasnah herself. Shallan watched the womans face. Was she pleased? Surprised? Displeased at how much time Shallan spent sketching sailors and serving women? Finally, Jasnah moved on to the sketchbook filled with drawings of plants and animals Shallan had observed during her trip. Jasnah spent the longest on