nose. Shallan took hers. What was the point of it? A couple of servants passed some wet cloths through a space between the rock and the wall to those inside. Then all of the servants rushed away down the hallway. Jasnah picked and prodded at the boulder. Miss Davar, she said, what method would you use to ascertain the mass of this stone? Shallan blinked. Well, I suppose Id ask His Majesty. His architects probably calculated it. Jasnah cocked her head. An elegant response. Did they do that, Your Majesty? Yes, Brightness Kholin, the king said. Its roughly fifteen thousand kavals. Jasnah eyed Shallan. A point in your favor, Miss Davar. A scholar knows not to waste time rediscovering information already known. Its a lesson I sometimes forget. Shallan felt herself swell at the words. She already had an inkling that Jasnah did not give such praise lightly. Did this mean that the woman was still considering her as a ward? Jasnah held up her freehand, Soulcaster glistening against the skin. Shallan felt her heartbeat speed up. Shed never seen Soulcasting done in person. The ardents were very secretive in using their fabrials, and she hadnt even known that her father had one until theyd found it on him. Of course, his no longer worked. That was one of the main reasons she was here. The gemstones set into Jasnahs Soulcaster were enormous, some of the largest that Shallan had ever seen, worth many spheres each. One was smokestone, a pure glassy black gemstone. The second was a diamond. The third was a ruby. All three were cuta cut stone could hold more Stormlightinto glistening, many-faceted oval shapes. Jasnah closed her eyes, pressing her hand against the fallen boulder. She raised her head, inhaling slowly. The stones on the back of her hand began to glow more fiercely, the smokestone in particular growing so bright it was difficult to look at. Shallan held her breath. The only thing she dared do was blink, committing the scene to memory. For a long, extended moment, nothing happened. And then, briefly, Shallan heard a sound. A low thrumming, like a distant group of voices, humming together a single, pure note. Jasnahs hand sank into the rock. The stone vanished. A burst of dense black smoke exploded into the hallway. Enough to blind