Distract it from the unarmed! Dalinar bellowed at his soldiers. The creature cracked the chulls shellplatter-size fragments clattering to the plateauthen stuffed the beast into its maw and began looking down at the fleeing scribes and attendants. The chull stopped bleating as the monster crunched down. Eight. Dalinar leaped a rocky shelf and sailed five yards before slamming into the ground, throwing up chips of rock. Nine. The chasmfiend bellowed with an awful screeching sound. It trumpeted with four voices, overlapping one another. Archers drew. Elhokar yelled orders just in front of Dalinar, his blue cape flapping. Dalinars hand tingled with anticipation. Ten! His ShardbladeOathbringerformed in his hand, coalescing from mist, appearing as the tenth beat of his heart thudded in his chest. Six feet long from tip to hilt, the Blade would have been unwieldy in the hands of any man not wearing Shardplate. To Dalinar, it felt perfect. Hed carried Oathbringer since his youth, Bonding to it when he was twenty Weepings old. It was long and slightly curved, a handspan wide, with wavelike serrations near the hilt. It curved at the tip like a fishermans hook, and was wet with cold dew. This sword was a part of him. He could sense energy racing along its blade, as if it were eager. A man never really knew life itself until he charged into battle with Plate and Blade. Make it angry ! Elhokar bellowed, his ShardbladeSunraiserspringing from mist into his hand. It was long and thin with a large crossguard, and was etched up the sides with the ten fundamental glyphs. He didnt want the monster to escape; Dalinar could hear it in his voice. Dalinar was more worried about the soldiers and attendants; this hunt had already turned terribly wrong. Perhaps they should distract the monster long enough for everyone to escape, then pull back and let it dine on chulls and hogs. The creature screamed its multivoiced wail again, slamming a claw down among the soldiers. Men screamed; bones splintered and bodies crumpled. Archers loosed, aiming for the head. A hundred shafts zipped into the air, but only a few hit the soft muscle between plates of chitin. Behind them, Sadeas was calling for his grandbow. Dalinar couldnt wait for thatthe creature was here, dangerous, killing his men. The bow would be too slow. This was a job for the Blade.