punishment, there can be only chaos. If there were no law, some men would do as they wish, yes, Jasnah said. But isnt it remarkable that, given the chance for personal gain at the cost of others, so many people choose what is right? Because they fear the Almighty. No, Jasnah said. I think something innate in us understands that seeking the good of society is usually best for the individual as well. Humankind is noble, when we give it the chance to be. That nobility is something that exists independent of any gods decree. I just dont see how anything could be outside Gods decrees. The king shook his head, bemused. Brightness Jasnah, I dont mean to argue, but isnt the very definition of the Almighty that all things exist because of him? If you add one and one, that makes two, does it not? Well, yes. No god needs declare it so for it to be true, Jasnah said. So, could we not say that mathematics exists outside the Almighty, independent of him? Perhaps. Well, Jasnah said, I simply claim that morality and human will are independent of him too. If you say that, the king said, chuckling, then youve removed all purpose for the Almightys existence! Indeed. The balcony fell silent. Jasnahs sphere lamps cast a cool, even white light across them. For an uncomfortable moment, the only sound was the scratching of Shallans charcoal on her drawing pad. She worked with quick, scraping motions, disturbed by the things that Jasnah had said. They made her feel hollow inside. That was partly because the king, for all his affability, was not good at arguing. He was a dear man, but no match for Jasnah in a conversation. Well, Taravangian said, I must say that you make your points quite effectively. I dont accept them, though. My intention is not to convert, Your Majesty, Jasnah said. I am content keeping my beliefs to myself, something most of my colleagues in the devotaries have difficulty doing. Shallan, have you finished yet? Quite nearly, Brightness. But its been barely a few minutes! the king said. She has remarkable skill, Your Majesty, Jasnah said. As I believe I mentioned. Shallan sat back, inspecting her piece. Shed been so focused on the conversation, shed just let her hands do the drawing, trusting in her instincts.