The wind was like a maelstrom, chaotic, moving in different directions. One buff et ripped at him, then passed, and he fell to the roof of the barrack with a thud. Almost immediately, the terrible winds tried to lift him again, pounding his skin with waves of icy water. Thunder crashed, the heartbeat of the beast that had swallowed him. Lighting split the darkness like white teeth in the night. The wind was so loud it nearly drowned out the thunder; howling and moaning. Grab the roof, Kaladin! Syls voice. So soft, so small. How could he hear it at all? Numbly, he realized he was lying facedown on the sloped roof. It wasnt so steeply peaked that he was immediately pitched off, and the wind was generally blowing him backward. He did as Syl said, grabbing the lip of the roof with cold, slick fingers. Then he lay facedown, head tucked between his arms. He still had the sphere in his hand, pressed against the stone rooftop. His fingers started to slip. The wind was blowing so hard, trying to push him to the west. If he let go, hed end up dangling in the air again. His rope tether was not long enough for him to get to the other side of the shallow-peaked rooftop, where hed be sheltered. A boulder hit the roof beside himhe couldnt hear its impact or see it in the tempests darkness, but he could feel the building vibrate. The boulder rolled forward and crashed down to the ground. The entire storm didnt have such force, but occasional gusts could pick up and toss large objects, hurling them hundreds of feet. His fingers slipped further. The ring, Syl whispered. The ring. The rope tied his legs to a steel ring on the side of the roof behind him. Kaladin let go, then snatched the ring as he was blown backward. He clutched to it. The rope continued down to his ankles, about the length of his body. He thought for a moment of untying the ropes, but he didnt dare let go of the ring. He clung there, like a pennant flapping in the wind, holding the ring in both hands, sphere cupped inside one of them and pressed against the steel. Each moment was a struggle. The wind yanked him left, then hurled him right. He couldnt know how long it lasted; time had no meaning in this place of fury and tumult. His numbed, battered mind started to think he was in a nightmare. A terrible dream inside his head, full of black, living winds. Screams in the air, bright and white, the flash of lightning revealing a terrible, twisted world of chaos and terror. The very buildings seemed blown sideways, the entire world askew, warped by the storms terrible power. In those brief moments of light when he dared to look, he thought he saw Syl standing in front of him, her face to the wind, tiny hands forward. As if she were