his sergeantsNalem and Korabet. Kaladin, Gare said. Stormfather, man! Why are you pestering me? On a battle day! Im well aware of whats ahead, Gare, Kaladin said, arms still folded. Several companies were already gathering, forming ranks. Dallet would see Kaladins own squad into place. At the front, theyd decided. Their enemya lighteyes named Hallawwas fond of long volleys. Theyd fought his men several times before. One time in particular was burned into Kaladins memory and soul. He had joined Amarams army expecting to defend the Alethi bordersand defend them he did. Against other Alethi. Lesser landlords who sought to slice off bits of Highprince Sadeass lands. Occasionally, Amarams armies would try to seize territory from other highprinceslands Amaram claimed really belonged to Sadeas and had been stolen years before. Kaladin didnt know what to make of that. Of all lighteyes, Amaram was the only one he trusted. But it did seem like they were doing the same thing as the armies they fought. Kaladin? Gare asked impatiently. You have something I want, Kaladin said. New recruit, just joined yesterday. Galan says his name is Cenn. Gare scowled. Im supposed to play this game with you now ? Talk to me after the battle. If the boy survives, maybe Ill give him to you. He turned to leave, cronies following. Kaladin stood up straight, picking up his spear. The motion stopped Gare in his tracks. Its not going to be a trouble to you, Kaladin said quietly. Just send the boy to my squad. Accept your payment. Stay quiet. He pulled out a pouch of spheres. Maybe I dont want to sell him, Gare said, turning back. Youre not selling him. Youre transferring him to me. Gare eyed the pouch. Well then, maybe I dont like how everyone does what you tell them. I dont care how good you are with a spear. My squad is my own. Im not going to give you any more, Gare, Kaladin said, dropping the pouch to the ground. The spheres clinked. We both know the boy is useless to you. Untrained, ill-equipped, too small to make a good line soldier. Send him to me. Kaladin turned and began to walk away. Within seconds, he heard a clink as Gare recovered the pouch. Cant blame a man for trying. Kaladin kept walking.