The Shardbearer turned on him, holding his Blade in a two-handed grip. Kaladin dashed past, just out of range of that incredible sword. Amaram had finally pulled himself free, and he was crawling away, one leg dragging behind himmultiple fractures, from the twist of it. Kaladin skidded to a stop, spinning, regarding the Shardbearer. This creature wasnt a god. It was everything the most petty of lighteyes represented. The ability to kill people like Kaladin with impunity. Every suit of armor had a chink. Every man had a flaw. Kaladin thought he saw the mans eyes through the helms slit. That slit was just big enough for a dagger, but the throw would have to be perfect. Hed have to be close. Deadly close. Kaladin charged forward again. The Shardbearer swung his Blade out in the same wide sweep hed used to kill so many of Kaladins men. Kaladin threw himself downward, skidding on his knees and bending backward. The Shardblade flashed above him, shearing the top of his spear free. The tip flipped up into the air, tumbling end over end. Kaladin strained, hurling himself back onto his feet. He whipped his hand up, flinging his knife at the eyes watching from behind impervious armor. The dagger hit the faceplate just slightly off from the right angle, bouncing against the sides of the slit and ricocheting out. The Shardbearer cursed, swinging his huge Blade back at Kaladin. Kaladin landed on his feet, momentum still propelling him forward. Something flashed in the air beside him, falling toward the ground. The spearhead. Kaladin bellowed in defiance, spinning, snatching the spearhead from the air. It had been falling tip-down, and he caught it by the four inches of haft that remained, gripping it with his thumb on the stump, the sharp point extending down beneath his hand. The Shardbearer brought his weapon around as Kaladin skidded to a stop and flung his arm to the side, slamming the spearhead right in the Shardbearers visor slit. All fell still. Kaladin stood with his arm extended, the Shardbearer standing just to his right. Amaram had pulled himself halfway up the side of the shallow hollow. Kaladins spearmates stood on the edge of the scene, gawking. Kaladin stood there, gasping, still gripping the haft of the spear, hand before the Shardbearers face. The Shardbearer creaked, then fell backward, crashing to the ground. His Blade dropped from his fingers, hitting the ground at an angle and digging into the stone.