Thats what you consider cheap ? Listers oil costs two sapphire marks. And knobweed sap? Kaladin said. I saw some of reeds of it growing just outside of camp! It cant be that rare. And do you know how much sap comes from a single plant? the apothecary asked, pointing. Kaladin hesitated. It wasnt true sap, but a milky substance that you could squeeze from the stalks. Or so his father had said. No, Kaladin admitted. A single drop, the man said. If youre lucky. Its cheaper than listers oil, sure, but more expensive than the mucus. Even if the mucus does stink like the Nightwatchers own backside. I dont have that much, Kaladin said. It was five diamond marks to a garnet. Ten days pay to buy one small jar of antiseptic. Stormfather! The apothecary sniffed. The needle and gut will cost two clearmarks. Can you afford that, at least? Barely. How much for the bandages? Two full emeralds? Theyre just old scraps that I bleached and boiled. Two clearchips an arm length. Ill give a mark for the box. Very well. Kaladin reached into his pocket to get the spheres as the old apothecary continued, You surgeons, all the same. Never give a blink to consider where your supplies come from. You just use them like there will be no end. You cant put a price on a persons life, Kaladin said. One of his fathers sayings. It was the main reason that Lirin had never charged for his services. Kaladin brought out his four marks. He hesitated when he saw them, however. Only one was still glowing with its soft crystal light. The other three were dull, the bits of diamond barely visible at the center of the drops of glass. Here now, the apothecary said, squinting. You trying to pass dun spheres off on me? He snatched one before Kaladin could complain, then fished around under his counter. He brought up a jewelers loupe, removing his spectacles and holding the sphere up toward the light. Ah. No, thats a real gemstone. You should get your spheres infused, bridgeman. Not everyone is as trusting as I am. They were glowing this morning, Kaladin protested. Gaz must have paid me with run-down spheres. The apothecary removed his loupe and replaced the spectacles. He selected three marks, including the glowing one. Could I have that one? Kaladin asked. The apothecary frowned.