become unimportant again, but would not collapse. Shallan studied the pictures again. The Alethi princess seemed remarkably casual about Soulcasting. She held one of the most powerful artifacts in all of Roshar, and she used it to create paperweights ? What else did she use the Soulcaster for, when Shallan wasnt watching? Jasnah seemed to use it less frequently in her presence now than she had at first. Shallan fished in the safepouch inside her sleeve, bringing out her fathers broken Soulcaster. It had been sheared in two places: across one of the chains and through the setting that held one of the stones. She inspected it in the light, lookingnot for the first timefor signs of that damage. The link in the chain had been replaced perfectly and the setting reforged equally well. Even knowing exactly where the cuts had been, she couldnt find any flaw. Unfortunately, repairing only the outward defects hadnt made it functional. She hefted the heavy construction of metal and chains. Then she put it on, looping chains around her thumb, small finger, and middle finger. There were no gemstones in the device at present. She compared the broken Soulcaster to the drawings, inspecting it from all sides. Yes, it looked identical. Shed worried about that. Shallan felt her heart flutter as she regarded the broken Soulcaster. Stealing from Jasnah had seemed acceptable when the princess had been a distant, unknown figure. A heretic, presumably ill-tempered and demanding. But what of the real Jasnah? A careful scholar, stern but fair, with a surprising level of wisdom and insight? Could Shallan really steal from her? She tried to still her heart. Even as a little child, shed been this way. She could remember her tears at fights between her parents. She was not good with confrontation. But shed do it. For Nan Balat, Tet Wikim, and Asha Jushu. Her brothers depended on her. She pressed her hands against her thighs to keep them from shaking, breathing in and out. After a few minutes, nerves under control, she took off the damaged Soulcaster and returned it to her safepouch. She gathered up her papers. They might be important in discovering how to use the Soulcaster. What was she going to do about that? Was there a way to ask Jasnah about using a Soulcaster without arousing suspicion? A light flickering through nearby bookcases startled her, and she tucked away her folio. It turned out to be just an old, berobed female ardent, shuffling with a lantern and followed by a parshman servant. She didnt look in Shallans direction as she turned between two rows of shelves, her lanterns light shining out through the spaces between the books. Lit that waywith her figure hidden but the light streaming between the shelvesit looked as if one of the Heralds