nobody starts, then others cannot follow. Dalinar had come to help Kaladins men, attacking those archers and saving Bridge Four. The lighteyes dont care about life, Lirin had said. So I must. So we must. So you must. Life before death. Ive failed so often. Ive been knocked to the ground and trod upon. Strength before weakness. This would be death Id lead my friends to Journey before destination. death, and what is right. We have to go back, Kaladin said softly. Storm it, we have to go back. He turned to the members of Bridge Four. One by one, they nodded. Men who had been the dregs of the army just months beforemen who had once cared for nothing but their own skinstook deep breaths, tossed away thoughts for their own safety, and nodded. They would follow him. Kaladin looked up and sucked in a deep breath. Stormlight rushed into him like a wave, as if hed put his lips up to a highstorm and drawn it into himself. Bridge up! he commanded. The members of Bridge Four cheered their agreement, grabbing their bridge and hoisting it high. Kaladin pulled on a shield, grabbing the straps in his hand. Then he turned, raising it high. With a shout, he led his men in a charge back toward that abandoned blue banner. Dalinars Plate leaked Stormlight from dozens of small breaks; no major piece had escaped. Light rose above him like steam from a cauldron, lingering as Stormlight did, slowly diffusing. The sun beat down upon him, baking him as he fought. He was so tired. It hadnt been long since Sadeass betrayal, not as time was counted in battles. But Dalinar had pushed himself hard, staying at the very front, fighting side by side with Adolin. His Plate had lost much Stormlight. It was growing heavier, and lent him less power with each swing. Soon it would weigh him down, slowing him so the Parshendi could swarm over him. Hed killed many of them. So many. A frightening number, and he did it without the Thrill. He was hollow inside. Better that than pleasure. He hadnt killed nearly enough of them. They focused on Dalinar and Adolin; with Shardbearers on the front line, any breach would soon be patched