They are trying to provoke discussion. Would you rather that the scholars hide from the truth, like so many? You would have men prefer ignorance? When reading these books, scholarship and ignorance feel much alike to me, Shallan said. Ignorance may reside in a man hiding from intelligence, but scholarship can seem ignorance hidden behind intelligence. And what of intelligence without ignorance? Finding truth while not dismissing the possibility of being wrong? A mythological treasure, Brightness, much like the Dawnshards or the Honorblades. Certainly worth seeking, but only with great caution. Caution? Jasnah said, frowning. It would make you famous, but actually finding it would destroy us all. Proof that one can be both intelligent and accept the intelligence of those who disagree with you? Why, I should think it would undermine the scholarly world in its entirety. Jasnah sniffed. You go too far, child. If you took half the energy you devote to being witty and channeled it into your work, I daresay you could be one of the greatest scholars of our age. Im sorry, Brightness, Shallan said. Iwell, Im confused. Considering the gaps in my education, I assumed you would have me studying things deeper in the past than a few years ago. Jasnah opened one of her books. I have found that youths like you have a relative lack of appreciation for the distant past. Therefore, I selected an area of study that is both more recent and sensational, to ease you into true scholarship. Is the murder of a king not of interest to you? Yes, Brightness, Shallan said. We children love things that are shiny and loud. You have quite the mouth on you at times. At times? You mean its not there at others? Ill have to Shallan trailed off, then bit her lip, realizing shed gone too far. Sorry. Never apologize for being clever, Shallan. It sets a bad precedent. However, one must apply ones wit with care. You often seem to say the first passably clever thing that enters your mind. I know, Shallan said. Its long been a foible of mine, Brightness. One my nurses and tutors tried very hard to discourage. Likely through strict punishments. Yes. Making me sit in the corner holding books over my head was the preferred method. Which, in turn, Jasnah said with a sigh, only trained you to make your quips more quickly, for you knew you had to get them out before you could