Be assured, Uncle, that I am coming. Eventually. I just cant say when. Dalinar sighed. Note, Jasnah wrote, that I am most eager to see a chasmfiend for myself. A dead one, Dalinar said. I have no intention of letting you repeat your brothers experience of a few weeks ago. Ah, Jasnah sent back, dear, overprotective Dalinar. One of these years, you will have to admit that your favored niece and nephew have grown up. Ill treat you as adults so long as you act the part, Dalinar said. Come speedily, and well get you a dead chasmfiend. Take care. They waited to see if a further response came, but the gem stopped blinking, Jasnahs transmission complete. Danlan put away the spanreed and the board, and Dalinar thanked the clerks for their aid. They withdrew; Adolin looked as if he wanted to linger, but Dalinar gestured for him to leave. Dalinar looked down at the picture of the chasmfiend again, unsatisfied. What had he gained from the conversation? More vague hints? What could be so important about Jasnahs research that she would ignore threats to the kingdom? He would have to compose a more forthright letter to her once hed made his announcement, explaining why he had decided to step down. Perhaps that would bring her back. And, in a moment of shock, Dalinar realized that he had made his decision. Sometime between leaving the trench and now, hed stopped treating his abdication as an if and started thinking of it as a when . It was the right decision. He felt sick about it, but certain. A man sometimes needed to do things that were unpleasant. It was the discussion with Jasnah, he realized. The talk of her father. He was acting like Gavilar at the end. That had nearly undermined the kingdom. Well, he needed to stop himself before he got that far. Perhaps whatever was happening to him was some kind of disease of the mind, inherited from their parents. It You are quite fond of Jasnah, Navani said. Dalinar started, turning away from the picture of the chasmfiend. Hed assumed shed followed Adolin out. But she still stood there, looking at him. Why is it, Navani said, that you encourage her so strongly to return? He turned to face Navani, and realized that shed sent her two youthful attendants out with the clerks. They were now alone. Navani, he said. This is inappropriate. Bah. Were family, and I have questions. Dalinar hesitated, then walked to the center of the room. Navani stood near