He grabbed a handhold and pulled the bridge across the chasm after him. Switch! Kaladin stood up dumbly. He didnt understand that command; Gaz had never given it before. The troops were forming ranks, moving with that mixture of skittishness and forced relaxation that men often went through before a battle. A few anticipationsprenlike red streamers, growing from the ground and whipping in the windbegan to sprout from the rock and wave among the soldiers. A battle? Gaz grabbed Kaladins shoulder and shoved him to the front of the bridge. Newcomers get to go first at this part, Your Lordship. The sergeant smiled wickedly. Kaladin dumbly picked up the bridge with the others, raising it over his head. The handholds were the same here, but this front row had a notched opening before his face, allowing him to see out. All of the bridgemen had changed positions; the men who had been running in the front moved to the back, and those at the backincluding Kaladin and the leathery-faced bridgemanmoved to the front. Kaladin didnt ask the point of it. He didnt care. He liked the front, though; jogging was easier now that he could see ahead of him. The landscape on the plateaus was that of rough stormlands; there were scattered patches of grass, but the stone here was too hard for their seeds to fully burrow into. Rockbuds were more common, growing like bubbles across the entire plateau, imitating rocks about the size of a mans head. Many of the buds were split, trailing out their vines like thick green tongues. A few were even in bloom. After so many hours breathing in the stuffy confines beneath the bridge, running in the front was almost relaxing. Why had they given such a wonderful position to a newcomer? TalenelatElin, bearer of all agonies, said the man to his right, voice horrified. Its going to be a bad one. Theyre already lined up! Its going to be a bad one! Kaladin blinked, focusing on the approaching chasm. On the other side of the rift stood a rank of men with marbled crimson and black skin. They were wearing a strange rusty orange armor that covered their forearms, chests, heads, and legs. It took his numbed mind a moment to understand. The Parshendi. They werent like common parshman workers. They were far more muscular, far more solid . They had the bulky build of soldiers, and each one