quicker breed. The songling quivered and Scrak pounced on it eagerly, crunching at its shell with her strong outer mandibles. Am I a coward, Scrak? Balat asked, sitting down on a bench. He set his cane aside and snatched a small crab that had been hiding on the side of the bench, its shell having turned white to match the stone. He held up the squirming animal. The greens grass had been bred to be less timid, and it poked out of its holes only a few moments after he passed. Other exotic plants bloomed, poking out of shells or holes in the ground, and soon patches of red, orange, and blue waved in the wind around him. The area around the axehound remained bare, of course. Scrak was having far too much fun with her prey, and she kept even the cultivated plants hidden in their burrows. I couldnt have gone to chase Jasnah, Balat said, starting to pull the crabs legs off. Only a woman could get close enough to her to steal the Soulcaster. We decided that. Besides, someone needs to stay back and care for the needs of the house. The excuses were hollow. He did feel like a coward. He pulled off a few more legs, but it was unsatisfying. The crab was too small, and the legs came off too easily. This plan probably wont even work, he said, taking off the last of the legs. Odd, looking at a creature like this when it had no legs. The crab was still alive. Yet how could you know it? Without the legs to wiggle, the creature seemed as dead as a stone. The arms, he thought, we wave them about to make us seem alive. Thats what theyre good for. He put his fingers between the halves of the crabs shell and began to pry them apart. This, at least, had a nice feeling of resistance to it. They were a broken family. Years of suffering their fathers brutal temper had driven Asha Jushu to vice and Tet Wikim to despair. Only Balat had escaped unscathed. Balat and Shallan. Shed been left alone, never touched. At times, Balat had hated her for that, but how could you truly hate someone like Shallan? Shy, quiet, delicate. I should never have let her go, he thought. There should have been another way. Shed never manage on her own; she was probably terrified. It was a wonder shed done as much as she had. He tossed the pieces of crab over his shoulder. If only Helaran had survived. Their eldest brotherthen known as Nan Helaran, as hed been the first son had stood up to their father repeatedly. Well, he was dead now, and so was their father. Theyd left behind a family of cripples. Balat! a voice cried. Wikim appeared on the porch. The younger man was