Adolin turned the long leather strap over in his hands. Almost a handspan wide and a fingers width thick, the strap ended in a ragged tear. It was the girth to the kings saddle, the strap that wrapped under the horses barrel. It had broken suddenly during the fight, throwing the saddleand the kingfrom horseback. What do you think? Dalinar asked. I dont know, Adolin said. It doesnt look that worn, but I guess it was, otherwise it wouldnt have snapped, right? Dalinar took the strap back, looking contemplative. The soldiers still hadnt returned with the bridge crew, though the sky was darkening. Father, Adolin said. Why would Elhokar ask us to look into this? Does he expect us to discipline the grooms for not properly caring for his saddle? Is it Adolin trailed off, and he suddenly understood his fathers hesitation. The king thinks the strap was cut, doesnt he? Dalinar nodded. He turned it over in his gauntleted fingers, and Adolin could see him thinking about it. A girth could get so worn that it would snap, particularly when strained by the weight of a man in Shardplate. This strap had broken off at the point where it had been affixed to the saddle, so it would have been easy for the grooms to miss it. That was the most rational explanation. But when looked at with slightly more irrational eyes, it could seem that something nefarious had happened. Father, Adolin said, hes getting increasingly paranoid. You know he is. Dalinar didnt reply. He sees assassins in every shadow, Adolin continued. Straps break. That doesnt mean someone tried to kill him. If the king is worried, Dalinar said, we should look into it. The break is smoother on one side, as if it were sliced so that it would rip when it was stressed. Adolin frowned. Maybe. He hadnt noticed that. But think about it, Father. Why would someone cut his strap? A fall from horseback wouldnt harm a Shardbearer. If it was an assassination attempt, then it was an incompetent one. If it was an assassination attempt, Dalinar said, even an incompetent one, then we have something to worry about. It happened on our watch, and his horse was cared for by our grooms. We will look into this. Adolin groaned, some of his frustration slipping out. The others already whisper that weve become bodyguards and pets of the king. What will they say if they hear that were chasing down his every paranoid worry, no matter how