son he couldnt practice with the spear and forbade him to think of going to war. Werent those the actions of a coward? But five months ago, Kal had seen courage in him that hed never expected. And in the calm blue light of Roshones palace, Lirin met the eyes of a man far above him in rank, wealth, and power. And did not flinch. How did he do it? Kals heart thumped uncontrollably. He had to put his hands in his lap to keep them from betraying his nervousness. Roshone waved to a serving man, and within a short time, new places had been set. The periphery of the room was dark. Roshones table was an illuminated island amid a vast black expanse. There were bowls of water for dipping ones fingers and stiff white cloth napkins beside them. A lighteyes meal. Kal had rarely eaten such fine food; he tried not to make a fool of himself as he hesitantly took a skewer and imitated Roshone, using his knife to slide down the bottommost chunk of meat, then raising it and biting. The meat was savory and tender, though the spices were much hotter than he was accustomed to. Lirin did not eat. He rested his elbows on the table, watching the Brightlord dine. I wished to offer you the chance to eat in peace, Roshone said eventually, before we talked of serious matters. But you dont seem inclined to partake of my generosity. No. Very well, Roshone said, taking a piece of flatbread from the basket and wrapping it around his skewer, pulling off several vegetable chunks at once and eating them with the bread. Then tell me. How long do you think you can defy me? Your family is destitute. We do just fine, Kal cut in. Lirin glanced at him, but did not chastise him for speaking. My son is correct. We can live. And if that doesnt work, we can leave. I will not bend to your will, Roshone. If you left, Roshone said, holding up a finger, I would contact your new citylord and tell him of the spheres stolen from me. I would win an inquest over that. Besides, as a surgeon, I am immune to most demands you could make. It was true; men and their apprentices who served an essential function in towns were afforded special protection, even from lighteyes. The Vorin legal code of citizenship was complex enough that Kaladin still had difficulty understanding it. Yes, you would win an inquest, Roshone said. You were so meticulous, preparing the exact right documents. You were the only one with Wistiow when