The long ride began. The permanent bridges here were Dalinars, maintained and guarded by his soldiers and scouts, connecting plateaus that he controlled. Sadeas spent the trip riding near the middle of the column of two thousand. He periodically sent an attendant to pull certain soldiers out of line. Dalinar spent the ride mentally preparing himself for the battle ahead. He spoke with his officers about the layout of the plateau, got a report on where specifically the chasmfiend had chosen to make its chrysalis, and sent scouts ahead to watch for Parshendi. Those scouts carried their long poles to get them from plateau to plateau without bridges. Dalinars force eventually reached the end of the permanent bridges, and had to start waiting for the chull bridges to be lowered across the chasms. The big machines were built like siege towers, with enormous wheels and armored sections at the side where soldiers could push. At a chasm, they unhooked the chulls, pushed the machine forward by hand, and ratcheted a crank at the back to lower the bridge. Once the bridge was set down, the machinery was unlocked and pulled across. The bridge was built so they could lock the machine onto the other side, pull the bridge up, then turn and hook the chulls up again. It was a slow process. Dalinar watched from horseback, fingers tapping the side of his hogshide saddle as the first chasm was spanned. Perhaps Teleb was right. Could they use lighter, more portable bridges to get across these early chasms, then resort to the siege bridges only for the final assault? A clatter of hooves on rock announced someone riding up the side of the column. Dalinar turned, expecting Adolin, and instead found Sadeas. Why had Sadeas asked to be Highprince of Information, and why was he so dogged in pursuing this matter of the broken girth? If he did decide to create some kind of false implication of Dalinars guilt The visions told me to trust him, Dalinar told himself firmly. But he was growing less certain about them. How much dared he risk on what theyd said? Your soldiers are quite loyal to you, Sadeas noted as he arrived. Loyalty is the first lesson of a soldiers life, Dalinar said. I would be worried if these men hadnt yet mastered it. Sadeas sighed. Really, Dalinar. Must you always be so sanctimonious? Dalinar didnt reply. Its odd, how a leaders influence can affect his men, Sadeas said. So many of these are like smaller versions of you. Bundles of emotion, wrapped up and tied until they become stiff from the pressure. Theyre so sure in some ways, yet so insecure in others. Dalinar kept his jaw clenched. What is your game, Sadeas? Sadeas smiled, leaning in, speaking softly. You want so badly to snap at