How do you know my name? he whispered. How do you know it? I know it becausebecause its mine. My parents told it to me. I dont know. Well I dont either, she said, nodding as if shed just won some grand argument. Fine, he said. But why are you using my name? Because its polite. And you are im polite. Spren dont know what that means! See, there, she said, pointing at him. Impolite. Kaladin blinked. Well, he was far from where hed grown up, walking foreign stone and eating foreign food. Perhaps the spren who lived here were different from those back home. So why dont you fight? she asked, flitting down to rest on his legs, looking up at his face. She had no weight that he could feel. I cant fight, he said softly. You did before. He closed his eyes and rested his head forward against the bars. Im so tired. He didnt mean the physical fatigue, though eight months eating leftovers had stolen much of the lean strength hed cultivated while at war. He felt tired. Even when he got enough sleep. Even on those rare days when he wasnt hungry, cold, or stiff from a beating. So tired You have been tired before. Ive failed, spirit, he replied, squeezing his eyes shut. Must you torment me so? They were all dead. Cenn and Dallet, and before that Tukks and the Takers. Before that, Tien. Before that, blood on his hands and the corpse of a young girl with pale skin. Some of the slaves nearby muttered, likely thinking he was mad. Anyone could end up drawing a spren, but you learned early that talking to one was pointless. Was he mad? Perhaps he should wish for thatmadness was an escape from the pain. Instead, it terrified him. He opened his eyes. Tvlakv was finally waddling up to Kaladins wagon with his bucket of water. The portly, brown-eyed man walked with a very faint limp; the result of a broken leg, perhaps. He was Thaylen, and all Thaylen men had the same stark white beardsregardless of their age or the color of the hair on their headsand white eyebrows. Those eyebrows grew very long, and the Thaylen wore them pushed back over the ears. That made him appear to have two white streaks in his otherwise black hair.