wasnt a surgeons tool, but it did the job just fine. By the time Syl returned with Lopen, Kaladin had gotten the breastplate free and had moved on to the carapace helm. It was harder to remove; it had grown into the skull in places, and he had to saw with the serrated section of the blade. Ho, gancho, Lopen said, a sack slung over his shoulder. You dont like them at all, do you? Kaladin stood, wiping his hands on the Parshendi mans skirt. Did you find what I asked for? Sure did, Lopen said, letting down the sack and digging into it. He pulled out an armored leather vest and cap, the type that spearmen used. Then he took out some thin leather straps and a medium-sized wooden spearmans shield. Finally came a series of deep red bones. Parshendi bones. At the very bottom of the sack was the rope, the one Lopen had bought and tossed into the chasm, then stashed down below. You havent lost your wits, have you? Lopen asked, eyeing the bones. Because if you have, Ive got a cousin who makes this drink for people whove lost their wits, and it might make you better, sure. If Id lost my wits, Kaladin said, walking over to a pool of still water to wash off the carapace helm, would I say that I had? I dont know, Lopen said, leaning back. Maybe. Guess it doesnt matter if youre crazy or not. Youd follow a crazy man into battle? Sure, Lopen said. If youre crazy, youre a good type, and I like you. Not a killing-people-in-their-sleep type of crazy. He smiled. Besides. We all follow crazies all the time. Do it every day with lighteyes. Kaladin chuckled. So whats this all for? Kaladin didnt answer. He brought the breastplate over to the leather vest, then tied it onto the front with some of the leather straps. He did the same with the cap and the helm, though he eventually had to saw some grooves into the helm with his knife to make it stay. Once done, Kaladin used the last straps to tie the bones together and attach them to the front of the round wooden shield. The bones rattled as he lifted the shield, but he decided it was good enough. He took shield, cap, and breastplate and put them all into Lopens sack. They barely fit. All right, he said, standing up. Syl, lead us to the short chasm. Theyd spent some time investigating, finding the best place to launch arrows into the bottom of permanent bridges. One bridge in particular was close to Sadeass warcampso they often traversed it on the way out on a bridge run