Yes, Dalinar thought. Adolin is right about this one too. Dalinar himself had judged the man too harshly in the past. He was not the fool some of his predecessors had been. Wit continued in silence, and Dalinar decided that perhapsthe mans prank this night was to sit down beside people and unnerve them. It wasnt much of a prank, but Dalinar often missed the point of what Wit did. Perhaps it was terribly clever if one had the mind for it. Dalinar returned to his meal. Winds are changing, Wit whispered. Dalinar glanced at him. Wits eyes narrowed, and he scanned the night sky. Its been happening for months now. A whirlwind. Shifting and churning, blowing us round and around. Like a world spinning, but we cant see it because were too much a part of it. World spinning. What foolishness is this? The foolishness of men who care, Dalinar, Wit said. And the brilliance of those who do not. The second depend on the firstbut also exploit the first while the first misunderstand the second, hoping that the second are more like the first. And all of their games steal our time. Second by second. Wit, Dalinar said with a sigh. I havent the mind for this tonight. Im sorry if Im missing your intent, but I have no idea what you mean. I know, Wit said, then looked directly at him. Adonalsium. Dalinar frowned more deeply. What? Wit searched his face. Have you ever heard the term, Dalinar? Adowhat? Nothing, Wit said. He seemed preoccupied, unlike his usual self. Nonsense. Balderdash. Figgldygrak. Isnt it odd that gibberish words are often the sounds of other words, cut up and dismembered, then stitched into something like themyet wholly unlike them at the same time? Dalinar frowned. I wonder if you could do that to a man. Pull him apart, emotion by emotion, bit by bit, bloody chunk by bloody chunk. Then combine them back together into something else, like a Dysian Aimian. If you do put a man together like that, Dalinar, be sure to name him Gibberish, after me. Or perhaps Gibletish. Is that your name, then? Your real name? No, my friend, Wit said, standing up. Ive abandoned my real name. But when next we meet, Ill think of a clever one for you to call me. Until then, Wit will sufficeor if you must, you may call me Hoid. Watch yourself; Sadeas is planning a revelation at the feast tonight, though I know not what it is. Farewell. Im sorry I didnt insult you more. Wait, youre leaving?