grand? That you are better than us? You think pretending that were your own personal troop of soldiers will change anything? Leave him alone, Drehy said. He shoved Sigzil as he passed. At least he tries. Earless Jacks snorted, pulling a boot free from a dead foot. He cares about looking important. Even if he was in the army, Ill bet he spent his days cleaning out latrines. It appeared that there was something that would pull the bridgemen out of their silent stupors: loathing for Kaladin. Others began talking, calling gibes. his fault were down here wants to run us ragged during our only free time, just so he can feel important sent us to carry rocks to show us he could shove us around bet hes never held a spear in his life. Kaladin closed his eyes, listening to their scorn, rubbing his fingers on the wood. Never held a spear in his life. Maybe if hed never picked up that first spear, none of this would have happened. He felt the smooth wood, slick with rainwater, memories jumbling in his head. Training to forget, training to get vengeance, training to learn and make sense of what had happened. Without thinking about it, he snapped the spear up under his arm into a guard position, point down. Water droplets from its length sprayed across his back. Moash cut off in the middle of another gibe. The bridgemen sputtered to a stop. The chasm became quiet. And Kaladin was in another place. He was listening to Tukks chide him. He was listening to Tien laugh. He was hearing his mother tease him in her clever, witty way. He was on the battlefield, surrounded by enemies but ringed by friends. He was listening to his father tell him with a sneer in his voice that spears were only for killing. You could not kill to protect. He was alone in a chasm deep beneath the earth, holding the spear of a fallen man, fingers gripping the wet wood, a faint dripping coming from somewhere distant. Strength surged through him as he spun the spear up into an advanced kata. His body moved of its own accord, going through the forms hed trained in so frequently. The spear danced in his fingers, comfortable, an extension of