lingering exhaustion from his sickness. Yet it wasnt nearly as bad as it should have been. The surgeons son was baffled. For the moment, the soldier overruled the surgeon. He was transfixed by the battle. Alethi spearmen in leathers and breastplates pressed a curved line against the Parshendi warriors. Most Parshendi used battle-axes or hammers, though a few wielded swords or clubs. They all had that red-orange armor growing from their skin, and they fought in pairs, singing all the while. It was the worst kind of battle, the kind that was close. Often, youd lose far fewer men in a skirmish where your enemies quickly gained the upper hand. When that happened, your commander would order the retreat to cut his losses. But close battlesthey were brutal, blood-soaked things. Watching the fighting the bodies dropped to the rocks, the weapons flashing, the men pushed off the plateaureminded him of his first fights as a spearman. His commander had been shocked at how easily Kaladin dealt with seeing blood. Kaladins father would have been shocked at how easily Kaladin spilled it. There was a big difference between his battles in Alethkar and the fights on the Shattered Plains. There, hed been surrounded by the worstor at least worst-trainedsoldiers in Alethkar. Men who didnt hold their lines. And yet, for all their disorder, those fights had made sense to him. These here on the Shattered Plains still did not. That had been his miscalculation. Hed changed battlefield tactics before understanding them. He would not make that mistake again. Rock stepped up beside Kaladin, joined by Sigzil. The thick-limbed Horneater made for quite a contrast to the short, quiet Azish man. Sigzils skin was a deep brownnot true black, like some parshmens. He tended to keep to himself. Is bad battle, Rock said, folding his arms. The soldiers will not be happy, whether or not they win. Kaladin nodded absently, listening to the yells, screams, and curses. Why do they fight, Rock? For money, Rock said. And for vengeance. You should know this thing. Is it not your king who Parshendi killed? Oh, I understand why we fight, Kaladin said. But the Parshendi. Why do they fight? Rock grinned. Is because they dont very much like the idea of being beheaded for killing your king, I should think! Very unaccommodating of them. Kaladin smiled, though he found mirth unnatural while watching men die. He had been trained too long by his father for any death to leave him unmoved. Perhaps. But, then, why do they fight for the gemhearts? Their numbers are