I think I saw the aftermath of one. I I may have seen corpses of Voidbringers. Could that give us more proof? Nothing nearly as good as the linguistics. Navani took a sip of her wine. The Desolations are matters of ancient lore. It could be argued that you imagined what you expected to see. But those wordsif we can translate them, nobody will be able to dispute that you are seeing something real. Her writing board lay on the low table between them, reed and ink set carefully across the paper. You intend to tell others? Dalinar asked. Of my visions? How else will we explain what is happening to you? Dalinar hesitated. How could he explain? On one hand, it was relieving to know that he was not mad. But what if some force were trying to mislead him with these visions, using images of Nohadon and the Radiants because he would find them trustworthy? The Knights Radiant fell, Dalinar reminded himself. They abandoned us. Some of the other orders may have turned against us, as the legends say. There was an unsettling edge to all of that. He had another stone in rebuilding the foundation of who he was, but the most important point still remained undecided. Did he trust his visions or not? He couldnt go back to believing them unquestioningly, not now that Adolins challenges had raised real worries in his head. Until he knew their source, he felt he shouldnt spread knowledge of them. Dalinar, Navani said, leaning forward. The warcamps speak of your episodes. Even the wives of your officers are uncomfortable. They think you fear the storms, or that you have some disease of the mind. This will vindicate you. How? By making me into some kind of mystic? Many will think that the breeze of these visions blows too close to prophecy. You see the past, Father, Renarin said. That is not forbidden. And if the Almighty sends them, then how could men question? Adolin and I both spoke with ardents, Dalinar replied. They said it was very unlikely that this would come from the Almighty. If we do decide the visions are to be trusted, many will disagree with me. Navani settled back, sipping her wine, safehand lying across her lap. Dalinar, your sons told me that you once sought the Old Magic. Why? What did you ask of the Nightwatcher, and what curse did she give you in return? I told them that shame is my own, Dalinar said. And I will not share it. The room fell silent. The flurries of rain following the highstorm had ceased falling on the roof. It might be important, Navani finally said. It was long ago. Long before the visions began. I dont think its related.