Two hoursand about twenty quick sketcheslater, Shallan felt far more relaxed. She sat in the palace gardens, sketchpad in her lap, drawing snails. The gardens werent as extensive as her fathers, but they were far more varied, not to mention blessedly secluded. Like many modern gardens, they were designed with walls of cultivated shalebark. This ones made a maze of living stone. They were short enough that, when standing, she could see the way back to the entrance. But if she sat down on one of the numerous benches, she could feel alone and unseen. Shed asked a groundskeeper the name of the most prominent shalebark plant; hed called it plated stone. A fitting name, as it grew in thin round sections that piled atop one another, like plates in a cupboard. From the sides, it looked like weathered rock that exposed hundreds of thin strata. Tiny little tendrils grew up out of pores, waving in the wind. The stonelike casings had a bluish shade, but the tendrils were yellowish. Her current subject was a snail with a low horizontal shell edged with little ridges. When she tapped, it would flatten itself into a rift in the shalebark, appearing to become part of the plated stone. It blended in perfectly. When she let it move, it nibbled at the shalebarkbut didnt chew it away. Its cleaning the shalebark, she realized, continuing her sketch. Eating off the lichen and mold. Indeed, a cleaner trail extended behind it. Patches of a different kind of shalebarkwith fingerlike protrusions growing up into the air from a central knobgrew alongside the plated stone. When she looked closely, she noted little cremlingsthin and multilegged crawling along it, eating at it. Were they too cleaning it? Curious, she thought, beginning a sketch of the miniature cremlings. They had carapaces shaded like the shalebarks fingers, while the snails shell was a near duplicate of the yellow and blue colorings of the plated stone. It was as if they had been designed by the Almighty in pairs, the plant giving safety to the animal, the animal cleaning the plant. A few lifesprentiny, glowing green specksfloated around the shalebark mounds. Some danced amid the rifts in the bark, others in the air like dust motes zigzagging up, only to fall again. She used a finer-tipped charcoal pencil to scribble some thoughts about the relationship between the animals and the plants. She didnt know of any books that spoke of relationships like this one. Scholars seemed to prefer studying big, dynamic animals, like greatshells or whitespines. But this seemed a beautiful, wondrous discovery to Shallan. Snails and plants can help one another, she thought. But I betray Jasnah.