crew. It had seemed so small at first, but Captain Tozbek was a calm and cautious man, an excellent sailor, even if he was a pagan. Hed guided the ship with care along the coast, always finding a sheltered cove to ride out highstorms. The captain oversaw the work as the men secured the mooring. Tozbek was a short man, even-shouldered with Shallan, and he wore his long white Thaylen eyebrows up in a curious spiked pattern. It was like he had two waving fans above his eyes, a foot long each. He wore a simple knit cap and a silver-buttoned black coat. Shed imagined him getting that scar on his jaw in a furious sea battle with pirates. The day before, shed been disappointed to hear it had been caused by loose tackle during rough weather. His wife, Ashlv, was already walking down the gangplank to register their vessel. The captain saw Shallan inspecting him, and so walked over. He was a business connection of her familys, long trusted by her father. That was good, since the plan she and her brothers had concocted had contained no place for her bringing along a lady-in-waiting or nurse. That plan made Shallan nervous. Very, very nervous. She hated being duplicitous. But the financial state of her houseThey either needed a spectacular infusion of wealth or some other edge in local Veden house politics. Otherwise, they wouldnt last the year. First things first, Shallan thought, forcing herself to be calm. Find Jasnah Kholin. Assuming she hasnt moved off without you again. Ive sent a lad on your behalf, Brightness, Tozbek said. If the princess is still here, we shall soon know. Shallan nodded gratefully, still clutching her drawing pad. Out in the city, there were people everywhere . Some wore familiar clothingtrousers and shirts that laced up the front for the men, skirts and colorful blouses for the women. Those could have been from her homeland, Jah Keved. But Kharbranth was a free city. A small, politically fragile city-state, it held little territory but had docks open to all ships that passed, and it asked no questions about nationality or status. People flowed to it. That meant many of the people she saw were exotic. Those single-sheet wraps would mark a man or woman from Tashikk, far to the west. The long coats, enveloping down to the ankles, but open in the front like cloakswhere were those from? Shed rarely seen so many parshmen as she noted working the docks, carrying cargo on their backs. Like the parshmen her father had owned, these were stout and thick of limb, with their odd marbled skinsome parts pale or black, others a deep crimson. The mottled pattern was unique to each individual. After chasing Jasnah Kholin from town to town for the better part of six