Daughter of Brightlord Seveks. And that other girl, Janala? Adolin grimaced, thinking back to the disastrous walk theyd gone on the other day. Several nice gifts had yet to repair that. She didnt seem half as excited about him now that he wasnt courting someone else. Things are rocky. Malasha seems like a better prospect. He moved on quickly. I take it that Roion wont soon be going on any plateau assault with us. Dalinar shook his head. Hes too afraid that Im trying to maneuver him into a position where I can seize his lands. Perhaps it was wrong to approach the weakest highprince first. Hed rather hunker down and try to weather what comes at him, holding what he has, as opposed to making a risky play for something greater. Dalinar stared at the map, looking distant again. Gavilar dreamed of unifying Alethkar. Once I thought hed achieved it, despite what he claimed. The longer I work with these men, the more I realize that Gavilar was right. We failed. We defeated these men, but we never unified them. So you still intend to approach the others? I do. I only need one to say yes in order to start. Who do you think we should go to next? Im not sure, Adolin said. But for now, I think you should know something. Sadeas has sent to us, asking permission to enter our warcamp. He wants to interview the grooms who cared for His Majestys horse during the hunt. His new position gives him the right to make those kinds of demands. Father, Adolin said, stepping closer, speaking softly. I think hes going to move against us. Dalinar looked at him. I know you trust him, Adolin said quickly. And I understand your reasons now. But listen to me. This move puts him in an ideal position to undermine us. The king has grown paranoid enough that hes suspicious even of you and meI know youve seen it. All Sadeas needs to do is find imaginary evidence linking us to an attempt to kill the king, and hell be able be able to turn Elhokar against us. We may have to risk that. Adolin frowned. But I trust Sadeas, son, Dalinar said. But even if I didnt, we couldnt forbid him entry or block his investigation. Wed not only look guilty in the kings eyes, but wed be denying his authority as well. He shook his head. If I ever want the other highprinces to accept me as their leader in war, I have to be