looked faintly familiar. Circles connected by lines, spreading outward from one another I dont know what to do, old friend, a voice said from the side. Dalinar turned to see a youthful man in regal white and gold robes, walking with his hands clasped before him, hidden by voluminous sleeves. He had dark hair pulled back in a braid and a short beard that came to a point. Gold threads were woven into his hair and came together on his forehead to form a golden symbol. The symbol of the Knights Radiant. They say that each time it is the same, the man said. We are never ready for the Desolations. We should be getting better at resisting, but each time we step closer to destruction instead. He turned to Dalinar, as if expecting a response. Dalinar glanced down. He too wore ornamental robes, though not as lavish. Where was he? What time? He needed to find clues for Navani to record and for Jasnah to use in provingor disprovingthese dreams. I dont know what to say either, Dalinar responded. If he wanted information, he needed to act more natural than he had in previous visions. The regal man sighed. I had hoped you would have wisdom to share with me, Karm. They continued walking toward the side of the room, approaching a place where the wall split into a massive balcony with a stone railing. It looked out upon an evening sky; the setting sun stained the air a dirty, sultry red. Our own natures destroy us, the regal man said, voice soft, though his face was angry. Alakavish was a Surgebinder. He should have known better. And yet, the Nahel bond gave him no more wisdom than a regular man. Alas, not all spren are as discerning as honorspren. I agree, Dalinar said. The other man looked relieved. I worried that you would find my claims too forward. Your own Surgebinders were But, no, we should not look backward. Whats a Surgebinder? Dalinar wanted to scream the question out, but there was no way. Not without sounding completely out of place. Perhaps What do you think should be done with these Surgebinders? Dalinar asked carefully. I dont know if we can force them to do anything. Their footsteps echoed in the empty room. Were there no guards, no attendants? Their power well, Alakavish proves the allure that Surgebinders have for the common people. If only there were a way to encourage them. The man stopped, turning to Dalinar. They need to be better, old friend. We all do. The responsibility of