fetch the spanreed. The young woman hurried to the bookshelf and moved the still-blinking reed to the small writing desk beside the lectern. She carefully clipped a piece of paper onto the writing board and put the ink vial into its hole, twisting it snugly into place and then pulling the stopper. Lighteyed women were very proficient at working with just their freehand. She sat down, looking up at him, seeming slightly nervous. Dalinar didnt trust her, of courseshe could easily be a spy for one of the other highprinces. Unfortunately, there werent any women in camp he trusted completely, not with Jasnah gone. I am ready, Brightlord, Danlan said. She had a breathy, husky voice. Just the type that attracted Adolin. He hoped she wasnt as vapid as those he usually picked. Proceed, Dalinar said, waving Navani toward one of the rooms plush easy chairs. The other clerks sat back down on their bench. Danlan turned the spanreeds gemstone one notch, indicating that the request had been acknowledged. Then she checked the levels on the sides of the writing boardsmall vials of oil with bubbles at the center, which allowed her to make the board perfectly flat. Finally, she inked the reed and placed it on the dot at the top left of the page. Holding it upright, she twisted the gemstone setting one more time with her thumb. Then she removed her hand. The reed remained in place, tip against the paper, hovering as if held in a phantom hand. Then it began to write, mimicking the exact movements Jasnah made miles away, writing with a reed conjoined to this one. Dalinar stood beside the writing table, armored arms folded. He could see that his proximity made Danlan nervous, but he was too anxious to sit. Jasnah had elegant handwriting, of courseJasnah rarely did anything without taking the time to perfect it. Dalinar leaned forward as the familiaryet indecipherablelines appeared on the page in stark violet. Faint wisps of reddish smoke floated up from the gemstone. The pen stopped writing, freezing in place. Uncle, Danlan read, I presume that you are well. Indeed, Dalinar replied. I am well cared for by those around me. The words were code indicating that he didnt trustor at least didnt know everyone listening. Jasnah would be careful not to send anything too sensitive. Danlan took the pen and twisted the gemstone, then wrote out the words, sending them across the ocean to Jasnah. Was she still in Tukar? After Danlan finished writing, she returned it to the dot at the top leftthe spot where the pens were both to be placed so Jasnah could continue the conversationthen turned the gemstone back to the previous setting.