muscles, bones, and curesfell on uncaring ears. All they saw was a boy who got to spend his days in the shade while they toiled in the burning sun. Old Tarn found a patch of polyps that aint growing right, Jost finally said, shooting a glance at Laral. Let us go for the day while they talked over whether to try another planting there, or just let them grow and see what comes of it. Kal nodded, feeling awkward as he stood before the nine boys. They were sweaty, the knees of their trousers stained with crem and patched from rubbing stone. But Kal was clean, wearing a fine pair of trousers his mother had purchased just a few weeks before. His father had sent him and Tien out for the day while he tended to something at the citylords manor. Kal would pay for the break with late-night studying by Stormlight, but no use explaining that to the other boys. So, er, Kal said, what were you all talking about? Rather than answering, Naget said, Kal, you know things. Light haired and spindly, he was the tallest of the bunch. Dont you? About the world and the like? Yeah, Kal said, scratching his head. Sometimes. You ever heard of a darkeyes becoming a lighteyes? Naget asked. Sure, Kal said. It can happen, Father says. Wealthy darkeyed merchants marry lowborn lighteyes and join their family. Then maybe have lighteyed children. That sort of thing. No, not like that, Khav said. He had low eyebrows and always seemed to have a perpetual scowl on his face. You know. Real darkeyes. Like us. Not like you, the tone seemed to imply. Kals family were the only one of second nahn in the town. Everyone else was fourth or fifth, and Kals rank made them uncomfortable around him. His fathers strange profession didnt help either. It all left Kal feeling distinctly out-of-place. You know how it can happen, Kal said. Ask Laral. She was just talking about it. If a man wins a Shardblade on the battlefield, his eyes become light. Thats right, Laral said. Everybody knows it. Even a slave could become a lighteyes if he won a Shardblade. The boys nodded; they all had brown, black, or other dark-colored eyes. Winning a Shardblade was one of the main reasons common men went to war. In Vorin kingdoms, everyone had a chance to rise. It was, as Kals father would say, a fundamental tenet of their society. Yeah, Naget said impatiently. But have you ever heard of it happening? Not just in stories, I mean. Does it happen for real? Sure, Kal said. It must. Otherwise, why would so many men go to war?