the corpses. Syl floated down and landed on his shoulder, making disgusted noises. As usual, she offered no explanation for her absence. The men knew what to do. Even with the rotspren, this was too rich a place to pass up. They went to work, pulling the corpses into a line so they could be inspected. Kaladin waved for Rock and Teft to join him as he picked up some stray bits of salvage that lay on the ground around the corpses. Dunny tagged along. Those bodies wear the highprinces colors, Rock noted as Kaladin picked up a dented steel cap. Ill bet theyre from that run a few days back, Kaladin said. It went badly for Sadeass forces.  Brightlord Sadeas, Dunny said. Then he ducked his head in embarrassment. Sorry, I didnt mean to correct you. I used to forget to say the title. My master beat me when I did. Master? Teft asked, picking up a fallen spear and pulling some moss off its shaft. I was an apprentice. I mean, before Dunny trailed off, then looked away. Teft had been right; bridgemen didnt like talking about their pasts. Anyway, Dunny was probably right to correct him. Kaladin would be punished if he were heard omitting a lighteyess honorific. Kaladin put the cap in his sack, then rammed his torch into a gap between two moss-covered boulders and started helping the others get the bodies into a line. He didnt prod the men toward conversation. The fallen deserved some reverenceif that was possible while robbing them. Next, the bridgemen stripped the fallen of their armor. Leather vests from the archers, steel breastplates from the foot soldiers. This group included a lighteyes in fine clothing beneath even finer armor. Sometimes the bodies of fallen lighteyes would be recovered from the chasms by special teams so the corpse could be Soulcast into a statue. Darkeyes, unless they were very wealthy, were burned. And most soldiers who fell into the chasms were ignored; the men in camp spoke of the chasms being hallowed resting places, but the truth was that the effort to get the bodies out wasnt worth the cost or the danger. Regardless, to find a lighteyes here meant that his family hadnt been wealthy enough, or concerned enough, to send men out to recover him. His face was crushed beyond recognition, but his rank insignia identified him as seventh dahn. Landless, attached to a more powerful officers retinue. Once they had his armor, they pulled daggers and boots off everyone in line