boots were always in demand. They left the fallen their clothing, though they took off the belts and cut free many shirt buttons. As they worked, Kaladin sent Teft and Rock around the bend to see if there were any other bodies nearby. Once the armor, weapons, and boots had been separated, the most grisly task began: searching pockets and pouches for spheres and jewelry. This pile was the smallest of the lot, but valuable. They didnt find any broams, which meant no pitiful reward for the bridgemen. As the men performed their morbid task, Kaladin noticed the end of a spear poking out of a nearby pool. It had gone unnoticed in their initial sweep. Lost in thought, he fetched it, shaking off the water, carrying it over to the weapons pile. He hesitated there, holding the spear over the pile with one hand, cold water dripping from it. He rubbed his finger along the smooth wood. He could tell from the heft, balance, and sanding that it was a good weapon. Sturdy, well made, well kept. He closed his eyes, remembering days as a boy holding a quarterstaff. Words spoken by Tukks years ago returned to him, words spoken on that bright summer day when hed first held a weapon in Amarams army. The first step is to care, Tukkss voice seemed to whisper. Some talk about being emotionless in battle. Well, I suppose its important to keep your head. But I hate that feeling of killing while calm and cold. Ive seen that those who care fight harder, longer, and better than those who dont. Its the difference between mercenaries and real soldiers. Its the difference between fighting to defend your homeland and fighting on foreign soil. Its good to care when you fight, so long as you dont let it consume you. Dont try to stop yourself from feeling. Youll hate who you become. The spear quivered in Kaladins fingers, as if begging him to swing it, spin it, dance with it. What are you planning to do, lordling? a voice called. Going to ram that spear into your own gut? Kaladin glanced up at the speaker. Moashstill one of Kaladins biggest detractorsstood near the line of corpses. How had he known to call Kaladin lordling? Had he been talking to Gaz? He claims hes a deserter, Moash said to Narm, the man working next to him. Says he was some important soldier, a squadleader or the like. But Gaz says thats all stupid boasting. They wouldnt send a man to the bridges if he actually knew how to fight. Kaladin lowered the spear. Moash smirked, turning back to his work. Others, however, had now noticed Kaladin. Look at him, Sigzil said. Ho, bridgeleader! You think that youre