What? Who made them? I mean, the Almighty wasnt likely to have created something from hate. So what made them? Everything has its opposite, Shallan. The Almighty is a force of good. To balance his goodness, the cosmere needed the Voidbringers as his opposite. So the more good that the Almighty did, the more evil he created as a by- product? Whats the point of doing any good at all if it just creates more evil? I see Jasnah has continued your training in philosophy. Thats not philosophy, Shallan said. Thats simple logic. He sighed. I dont think you want to get into the deep theology of this. Suffice it to say that the Almightys pure goodness created the Voidbringers, but men may choose good without creating evil because as mortals they have a dual nature. Thus the only way for good to increase in the cosmere is for men to create itin that way, good may come to outweigh evil. All right, she said. But I dont buy the explanation about the Voidbringers. I thought you were a believer. I am . But just because I honor the Almighty doesnt mean Im going to accept any explanation, Kabsal. It might be religion, but it still has to make sense. Didnt you once tell me that you didnt understand your own self? Well, yes. And yet you expect to be able to understand the exact workings of the Almighty ? She drew her lips into a line. All right, fine. But I still want to know more about the Voidbringers. He shrugged as she guided him into an archive room, filled with shelves of books. I told you the basics, Shallan. The Voidbringers were an embodiment of evil. We fought them off ninety and nine times, led by the Heralds and their chosen knights, the ten orders we call the Knights Radiant. Finally, Aharietiam came, the Last Desolation. The Voidbringers were cast back into the Tranquiline Halls. The Heralds followed to force them out of heaven as well, and Roshars Heraldic Epochs ended. Mankind entered the Era of Solitude. The modern era. But why is everything from before so fragmented? This was thousands and thousands of years ago, Shallan, Kabsal said. Before history, before men even knew how to forge steel. We had to be given Shardblades, otherwise we would have had to fight the Voidbringers with clubs. And yet we had the Silver Kingdoms and the Knights Radiant.