the north, Sadeass forces were stalled. Well, Dalinars force would do the work for him. If Dalinar could spear forward here, he could slice the Parshendi in half, then crush the northern side against Sadeas and the southern side against the cliff edge. His army surged forward behind him, and the Thrill bubbled within. It was power. Strength greater than Shardplate. Vitality greater than youth. Skill greater than a lifetime of practice. A fever of power. Parshendi after Parshendi fell before his Blade. He couldnt cut their flesh, yet he sheared through their ranks. The momentum of their attacks often carried their corpses stumbling past him even as their eyes burned. The Parshendi started to break, running away or falling back. He grinned behind his near-translucent visor. This was life. This was control. Gavilar had been the leader, the momentum, and the essence of their conquest. But Dalinar had been the warrior. Their opponents had surrendered to Gavilars rule, but the Blackthornhe was the man who had scattered them, the one who had dueled their leaders and slain their best Shardbearers. Dalinar screamed at the Parshendi, and their entire line bent, then shattered. The Alethi surged forward, cheering. Dalinar joined his men, charging at their forefront to run down the fleeing Parshendi warpairs as they fled to the north or south, trying to join larger groups who held there. He reached a pair. One turned to hold him off with a hammer, but Dalinar cut him down in passing, then grabbed the other Parshendi and threw him down with a twist of the arm. Grinning, Dalinar raised his Blade high over his head, looming over the soldier. The Parshendi rolled awkwardly, holding his arm, no doubt shattered as he was thrown down. He looked up at Dalinar, terrified, fearspren appearing around him. He was only a youth. Dalinar froze, Blade held above his head, muscles taut. Those eyes that face Parshendi might not be human, but their featurestheir expressions were the same. Save for the marbled skin and the strange growths of carapace armor, this boy could have been a groom in Dalinars stable. What did he see above him? A faceless monster in impervious armor? What was this youths story? He would only have been a boy when Gavilar had been assassinated. Dalinar stumbled backward, the Thrill vanishing. One of the Cobalt Guardsmen passed by, casually ramming a sword into the Parshendi boys neck. Dalinar raised a hand, but it was over too quickly for him to stop. The soldier didnt notice Dalinars gesture. Dalinar lowered his hand. His men were rushing around him, rolling over the