Adolin had stewed over Navanis revelation for days. Hed been wrong in such a horrible way. Dalinar Kholin wasnt growing weak. He wasnt getting senile. He wasnt a coward. Dalinar had been right, and Adolin had been wrong. After much soul searching, Adolin had come to a decision. He was glad that hed been wrong. He grinned, flexing the fingers of his Plated hand as the armorers moved to his other side. He didnt know what the visions meant, or what the implications of those visions would be. His father was some kind of prophet, and that was daunting to consider. But for now, it was enough that Dalinar was not insane. It was time to trust him. Stormfather knew, Dalinar had earned that right from his sons. The armorers finished with Adolins Shardplate. As they stepped away, Adolin hurried out of the armoring room into the sunlight, adjusting to the combined strength, speed, and weight of the Shardplate. Niter and five other members of the Cobalt Guard hastened up, one bringing Sureblood to him. Adolin took the reins, but led the Ryshadium at first, wanting more time to adapt to his Plate. They soon entered the staging area. Dalinars father, in his Shardplate, was conferring with Teleb and Ilamar. He seemed to tower over them as he pointed eastward. Already, companies of soldiers were moving out onto the lip of the Plains. Adolin strode up to his father, eager. In the near distance, he noticed a figure riding down along the eastern rim of the warcamps. The figure wore gleaming red Shardplate. Father? Adolin said, pointing. Whats he doing here? Shouldnt he be waiting for us to ride to his camp? Dalinar looked up. He waved for a groom to bring Gallant, and the two of them mounted. They rode down to intercept Sadeas, trailed by a dozen members of the Cobalt Guard. Did Sadeas want to call off the assault? Was he worried about failing against the Tower again? Once they drew close, Dalinar pulled up. You should be moving, Sadeas. Speed will be important, if were to get to the plateau before the Parshendi take the gemheart and go. The highprince nodded. Agreed, in part. But we need to confer first. Dalinar, this is the Tower were assaulting! He seemed eager. Yes, and? Damnation, man! Sadeas said. Youre the one who told me we needed to find a way to trap a large force of Parshendi on a plateau. The Tower is perfect . They always bring a large force there, and two sides are inaccessible.