dwindling because of skirmishes like these. You know this thing? Rock asked. They raid less frequently than they used to, Kaladin said. People talk about it in camp. And they dont strike as close to the Alethi side as they once did. Rock nodded thoughtfully. It seems logical. Ha! Perhaps we will soon win this fight and be going home. No, Sigzil said softly. He had a very formal way of speaking, with barely a hint of an accent. What language did the Azish speak, anyway? Their kingdom was so distant that Kaladin had only ever met one other. I doubt that. And I can tell you why they fight, Kaladin. Really? They must have Soulcasters. They need the gemstones for the same reason we do. To make food. It sounds reasonable, Kaladin said, hands still clasped behind his back, feet in a wide stance. Parade rest still felt natural to him. Just conjecture, but a reasonable one. Let me ask you something else, then. Why cant bridgemen have shields? Because this thing makes us too slow, Rock said. No, Sigzil said. They could send bridgemen with shields out in front of the bridges, running in front of us. It wouldnt slow anyone down. Yes, you would have to field more bridgemenbut youd save enough lives with those shields to make up for the larger roster. Kaladin nodded. Sadeas fields more of us than he needs already. In most cases, more bridges land than he needs. But why? Sigzil asked. Because we make good targets, Kaladin said softly, understanding. Were put out in front to draw Parshendi attention. Of course we are, Rock said, shrugging. Armies always do these things. The poorest and the least trained go first. I know, Kaladin said, but usually, theyre at least given some measure of protection. Dont you see? Were not just an expendable initial wave. Were bait . Were exposed, so the Parshendi cant help but fire at us. It allows the regular soldiers to approach without being hurt. The Parshendi archers are aiming at the bridgemen. Rock frowned. Shields would make us less tempting, Kaladin said. Thats why he forbids them. Perhaps, Sigzil said from the side, thoughtful. But it seems foolish to