day was when everything had started to go wrong. The loss of Gavilar had nearly crushed Dalinar, and Adolin would never forgive the Parshendi for bringing his father such pain. Never. Men fought on the Plains for different reasons, but this was why Adolin had come. Perhaps if they beat the Parshendi, his father would go back to the man he had been. Perhaps those ghostly delusions that haunted him would vanish. Ahead, Dalinar was speaking quietly with Sadeas. Both men wore frowns. They barely tolerated one another, though they had once been friends. That had also changed the night of Gavilars death. What had happened between them? The day wore on, and they eventually arrived at the hunt sitea pair of plateaus, one where the creature would be lured up to attack, and another one a safe distance away for those who would watch. Like most others, these plateaus had an uneven surface inhabited by hardy plants adapted to regular storm exposure. Rocky shelves, depressions, and uneven footing made fighting on them treacherous. Adolin joined his father, who waited beside the final bridge as the king moved over onto the viewing plateau, followed by a company of soldiers. The attendants would be next. Youre doing well with your command, son, Dalinar said, nodding to a group of soldiers at they passed and saluted. Theyre good men, Father. They hardly need someone to command them during a march from plateau to plateau. Yes, Dalinar said. But you need experience leading, and they need to learn to see you as a commander. Renarin trotted up to them on his horse; it was probably time to cross to the viewing plateau. Dalinar nodded for his sons to go first. Adolin turned to go, but hesitated as he noticed something on the plateau behind them. A rider, moving quickly to catch up with the hunting party, coming from the direction of the warcamps. Father, Adolin said, pointing. Dalinar turned immediately, following the gesture. However, Adolin soon recognized the newcomer. Not a messenger, as hed expected. Wit! Adolin called, waving. The newcomer trotted up to them. Tall and thin, the Kings Wit rode easily on a black gelding. He wore a stiff black coat and black trousers, a color matched by his deep onyx hair. Though he wore a long, thin sword tied to his waist, as far as Adolin knew, the man had never drawn it. A dueling foil rather than a military blade, it was mostly symbolic. Wit nodded to them as he approached, wearing one of those keen smiles of