WARNING FABRIALS There is only one type of fabrial in this set, informally known as the Alerter. An Alerter can warn one of a nearby object, feeling, sensation, or phenomenon. These fabrials use a heliodor stone as their focus. I do not know whether this is the only type of gemstone that will work, or if there is another reason heliodor is used. In the case of this kind of fabrial, the amount of Stormlight you can infuse into it affects its range. Hence the size of gemstone used is very important. WINDRUNNING AND LASHINGS Reports of the Assassin in Whites odd abilities have led me to some sources of information that, I believe, are generally unknown. The Windrunners were an order of the Knights Radiant, and they made use of two primary types of Surgebinding. The effects of these Surgebindings were knowncolloquially among the members of the orderas the Three Lashings. BASIC LASHING: GRAVITATIONAL CHANGE This type of Lashing was one of the most commonly used Lashings among the order, though it was not the easiest to use. (That distinction belongs to the Full Lashing below.) A Basic Lashing involved revoking a beings or objects spiritual gravitational bond to the planet below, instead temporarily linking that being or object to a different object or direction. Effectively, this creates a change in gravitational pull, twisting the energies of the planet itself. A Basic Lashing allowed a Windrunner to run up walls, to send objects or people flying off into the air, or to create similar effects. Advanced uses of this type of Lashing would allow a Windrunner to make himself or herself lighter by binding part of his or her mass upward. (Mathematically, binding a quarter of ones mass upward would halve a persons effective weight. Binding half of ones mass upward would create weightlessness.) Multiple Basic Lashings could also pull an object or a persons body downward at double, triple, or other multiples of its weight. FULL LASHING: BINDING OBJECTS TOGETHER A Full Lashing might seem very similar to a Basic Lashing, but they worked on