entourage. Theyre worthless, you know, Sadeas said. Youre of the ten fools, Dalinar Kholin! Dont you see how mad you are? This will be remembered as the most ridiculous decision ever made by an Alethi highprince! Dalinar didnt look back. He walked up to Kaladin and the other members of Bridge Four. Go, Dalinar said to them, voice kindly. Gather your things and the men you left behind. I will send troops with you to act as guards. Leave the bridges and come swiftly to my camp. You will be safe there. You have my word of honor on it. He began to walk away. Kaladin shook off his numbness. He scrambled after the highprince, grabbing his armored arm. Wait. You That What just happened?  Dalinar turned to him. Then, the highprince laid a hand on Kaladins shoulder, the gauntlet gleaming blue, mismatched with the rest of his slate-grey armor. I dont know what has been done to you. I can only guess what your life has been like. But know this. You will not be bridgemen in my camp, nor will you be slaves. But What is a mans life worth? Dalinar asked softly. The slavemasters say one is worth about two emerald broams, Kaladin said, frowning. And what do you say? A life is priceless, he said immediately, quoting his father. Dalinar smiled, wrinkle lines extending from the corners of his eyes. Coincidentally, that is the exact value of a Shardblade. So today, you and your men sacrificed to buy me twenty-six hundred priceless lives. And all I had to repay you with was a single priceless sword. I call that a bargain. You really think it was a good trade, dont you? Kaladin said, amazed. Dalinar smiled in a way that seemed strikingly paternal. For my honor? Unquestionably. Go and lead your men to safety, soldier. Later tonight, I will have some questions for you. Kaladin glanced at Sadeas, who held his new Blade with awe. You said youd take care of Sadeas. This was what you intended? This wasnt taking care of Sadeas, Dalinar said. This was taking care of you and your men. I still have work to do today.