squadleader over. Behind Cenn and the others, the dozens of ranks were still growing. The archers on the sides prepared to fire. Dont worry, son, Dallet said. Well be fine. Squadleader Kaladin is lucky. The soldier on the other side of Cenn nodded. He was a lanky, red-haired Veden, with darker tan skin than the Alethi. Why was he fighting in an Alethi army? Thats right. Kaladin, hes stormblessed, right sure he is. We only lost what, one man last battle? But someone did die, Cenn said. Dallet shrugged. People always die. Our squad loses the fewest. Youll see. Kaladin finished conferring with the other squadleader, then jogged back to his team. Though he carried a shortspearmeant to be wielded one-handed with a shield in the other handhis was a hand longer than those held by the other men. At the ready, men! Dallet called. Unlike the other squadleaders, Kaladin didnt fall into rank, but stood out in front of his squad. The men around Cenn shuffled, excited. The sounds were repeated through the vast army, the stillness giving way before eagerness. Hundreds of feet shuffling, shields slapping, clasps clanking. Kaladin remained motionless, staring down the other army. Steady, men, he said without turning. Behind, a lighteyed officer passed on horseback. Be ready to fight! I want their blood, men. Fight and kill! Steady, Kaladin said again, after the man passed. Be ready to run, Dallet said to Cenn. Run? But weve been trained to march in formation! To stay in our line! Sure, Dallet said. But most of the men dont have much more training than you. Those who can fight well end up getting sent to the Shattered Plains to battle the Parshendi. Kaladins trying to get us into shape to go there, to fight for the king. Dallet nodded down the line. Most of these here will break and charge; the lighteyes arent good enough commanders to keep them in formation. So stay with us and run. Should I have my shield out? Around Kaladins team, the other ranks were unhooking their shields. But Kaladins squad left their shields on their backs. Before Dallet could answer, a horn blew from behind. Go! Dallet said. Cenn didnt have much choice. The entire army started moving in a clamor of marching boots. As Dallet had predicted, the steady march didnt last long. Some men began yelling, the roar taken up by others. Lighteyes called for them