That glow was so pure, so sweet. It seemed to be the glow of life itself. Whenever one of the deathspren got too close, she would charge at it, wielding her radiant blade. The light warded them off. But there were a lot of deathspren. More and more each time he was lucid enough to look. Severe delusions caused by trauma to the head. Maintain observation of subject. Do not allow alcohol intake. Enforce rest. Administer fathom bark to reduce cranial swelling. Firemoss can be used in extreme cases, but beware letting the subject form an addiction. If medication fails, trepanning the skull may be needed to relieve pressure. Usually fatal. Teft entered the barrack at midday. Ducking into the shadowy interior was like entering a cave. He glanced to the left, where the other wounded usually slept. They were all outside at the moment, getting some sun. All five were doing well, even Leyten. Teft passed the lines of rolled-up blankets at the sides of the room, walking to the back of the chamber where Kaladin lay. Poor man, Teft thought. Whats worse, being sick near to death, or having to stay all the way back here, away from the light? It was necessary. Bridge Four walked a precarious line. They had been allowed to cut Kaladin down, and so far nobody had tried to stop them from caring for him. Practically the entire army had heard Sadeas give Kaladin to the Stormfather for judgment. Gaz had come to see Kaladin, then had snorted to himself in amusement. Hed likely told his superiors that Kaladin would die. Men didnt live long with wounds like those. Yet Kaladin hung on. Soldiers were going out of their way to try to get a peek at him. His survival was incredible. People were talking in camp. Given to the Stormfather for judgment, then spared. A miracle. Sadeas wouldnt like that. How long would it be before one of the lighteyes decided to relieve their brightlord of the problem? Sadeas couldnt take any overt actionnot without losing a great deal of credibilitybut a quiet poisoning or suffocation would abbreviate the embarrassment. So Bridge Four kept Kaladin as far from outside eyes as possible. And they always left someone with him. Always.