Water, Kaladin! Lirin cried. Hesina, fetch more. Quickly! His mother jumped to help, though she rarely assisted in the surgery anymore. Her hands shook as she grabbed one of the buckets and ran outside. Kaladin took the other bucket, which was full, to his father as Lirin eased the length of bone from the young lighteyess gut. Rillirs remaining eye fluttered, head quivering. What is that? Kaladin asked, pressing the bandage to the wound as his father tossed the strange object aside. Whitespine tusk, his father said. Water. Kaladin grabbed a sponge, dunked it in the bucket, and used it to squeeze water into Rillirs gut wound. That washed away the blood, giving Lirin a good look at the damage. He quested with his fingers as Kaladin got some needle and thread ready. There was already a tourniquet on the leg. Full amputation would come later. Lirin hesitated, fingers inside the gaping hole in Rillirs belly. Kaladin cleaned the wound again. He looked up at his father, concerned. Lirin pulled his fingers out and walked to Brightlord Roshone. Bandages, Kaladin, he said curtly. Kaladin hurried over, though he shot a look over his shoulder at Rillir. The once-handsome young lighteyes trembled again, spasming. Father Bandages! Lirin said. What are you doing, surgeon? Roshone bellowed. What of my son? Painspren swarmed around him. Your son is dead, Lirin said, yanking the tusk free from Roshones leg. The lighteyes bellowed in agony, though Kaladin couldnt tell if that was because of the tusk or his son. Roshone clenched his jaw as Kaladin pressed the bandage down on his leg. Lirin dunked his hands in the water bucket, then quickly wiped them with knobweed sap to frighten off rotspren. My son is not dead , Roshone growled. I can see him moving! Tend to him, surgeon. Kaladin, get the dazewater, Lirin ordered gathering his sewing needle. Kaladin hurried to the back of the room, steps splashing blood, and threw open the far cupboard. He took out a small flask of clear liquid. What are you doing? Roshone bellowed, trying to sit up. Look at my son! Almighty above, look at him! Kaladin turned hesitantly, pausing as he poured dazewater on a bandage. Rillir was spasming more violently. I work under three guidelines, Roshone, Lirin said, forcibly pressing the lighteyes down against his table. The guidelines every surgeon uses when