bridge crews. The two nearestBridge Seven and Bridge Eighteenstood looking toward Kaladin and his team. All twenty bridges had been set? Hardly any casualties? Stormfather, Kaladin thought. How many archers were firing at me? You did it, Kaladin! Moash exclaimed. You found the secret. We need to make this work. Expand it. Ill bet I could dodge those arrows, if that were all I was doing, Skar said. With enough armor We should have more than one, Moash agreed. Five or so, running around drawing the Parshendi attacks. The bones, Rock said, folding his arms. This is what made it work. The Parshendi were so mad that they ignored bridge crew. If all five wear the bones of Parshendi That made Kaladin consider something. He looked back, searching through the bridgemen. Where was Shen? There. He was sitting on the rocks, distant, staring forward. Kaladin approached with the others. The parshman looked up at him, face a mask of pain, tears streaking his cheeks. He looked at Kaladin and shuddered visibly, turning away, closing his eyes. He sat down like that the moment he saw what youd done, lad, Teft said, rubbing his chin. Might not be good for bridge runs anymore. Kaladin pulled the carapacetied helm off his head, then ran his fingers through his hair. The carapace stuck to his clothing stank faintly, even though hed washed it off down below. Well see, Kaladin said, feeling a twist of guilt. Not nearly enough to overshadow the victory of protecting his men, but enough to dampen it, at least. For now, there are still many bridge crews that got fired upon. You know what to do. The men nodded, trotting off to search for the wounded. Kaladin set one man to watch over Shenhe wasnt sure what else to do with the parshman and tried not to show his exhaustion as he put his sweaty, carapace-covered cap and vest in Lopens litter. He knelt down to go through his medical equipment, in case it was needed, and found that his hand was shaking and quivering. He pressed it down against the ground to still it, breathing in and out. Cold, clammy skin, he thought. Nausea. Weakness. He was in shock. You all right, lad? Teft asked, kneeling down beside Kaladin. He still wore a bandage on his arm from the wound hed taken a few bridge runs back, but it wasnt enough to stop him from carrying. Not when there were too few as it was. Ill be fine, Kaladin said, taking out a waterskin, holding it in a quivering