But it could be. Yes, he admitted. Would that day never stop haunting him? Was not losing all memory of his wife enough? What did Renarin think? Would he condemn his father for such an egregious sin? Dalinar forced himself to look up and meet his sons bespectacled eyes. Curiously, Renarin didnt seem bothered. Just thoughtful. Im sorry you had to discover my shame, Dalinar said, looking to Navani. She waved indifferently. Soliciting the Old Magic is offensive to the devotaries, but their punishments for the act are never severe. I assume that you didnt have to do much to be cleansed. The ardents asked for spheres to give the poor, Dalinar said. And I had to commission a series of prayers. None of that removed the effects or my sense of guilt. I think youd be surprised at how many devout lighteyes turn to the Old Magic at one point in their lives or another. The ones who can make their way to the Valley, at least. But I do wonder if this is related. Aunt, Renarin said, turning to her. I have recently asked for a number of readings about the Old Magic. I agree with his assessment. This does not feel like the work of the Nightwatcher. She gives curses in exchange for granting small desires. Always one curse and one desire. Father, I assume you know what both of those things are? Yes, he said. I know exactly what my curse was, and it does not relate to this. Then it is unlikely that the Old Magic is to blame. Yes, Dalinar said. But your aunt is right to question. The truth is, we dont have any proof that this came from the Almighty either. Something wants me to know of the Desolations and the Knights Radiant. Perhaps we should start asking ourselves why that is. What were the Desolations, Aunt? Renarin asked. The ardents talk of the Voidbringers. Of mankind, and the Radiants, and of fighting. But what were they really? Do we know anything specific? There are folklorists among your fathers clerks who would serve you better in this matter. Perhaps, Dalinar added, but Im not sure which of them I can trust. Navani paused. Fair enough. Well, from what I understand, there are no primary accounts remaining. This was long, long ago. I do recall that the myth of Parasaphi and Nadris mentions the Desolations. Parasaphi, Renarin said. Shes the one who searched out the seedstones. Yes, Navani replied. In order to repopulate her fallen people, she climbed