Blast. Her commentsher presencewere like a goblet of darkwine poured into the middle of his crystal thoughts. The clarity hed sought in hard labor was quickly vanishing. Did she have to be so forward? He didnt answer the question. Instead, he picked up his pace and hoped that shed see he didnt want to discuss the topic. It was no use. I didnt pick him because he would become king, Dalinar. Though thats what everyone says. I chose him because you frightened me. That intensity of yoursit scared your brother too, you know. He said nothing. Its still in there, she said. I can see it in your eyes. But youve wrapped armor around it, a glistening set of Shardplate to contain it. That is part of what I find fascinating. He stopped, looking at her. The palanquin bearers halted. This would not work, Navani, he said softly. Wouldnt it? He shook his head. I will not dishonor my brothers memory. He regarded her sternly, and she eventually nodded. When he continued walking, she said nothing, though she did eye him slyly from time to time. Eventually, they reached his personal complex, marked by fluttering blue banners with the glyphpair khokh and linil , the former drawn in the shape of a crown, the second forming a tower. Dalinars mother had drawn the original design, the same his signet ring bore, though Elhokar used a sword and crown instead. The soldiers at the entrance to his complex saluted, and Dalinar waited for Navani to join him before entering. The cavernous interior was lit by infused sapphires. Once they reached his sitting chamber, he was again struck by just how lavish it had gotten over the months. Three of his clerks waited with their attending girls. All six stood up when he entered. Adolin was also there. Dalinar frowned at the youth. Shouldnt you be seeing to the inspections? Adolin started. Father, I finished those hours ago. You did? Stormfather! How long did I spend pounding on those stones? Father, Adolin said, stepping up to him. Can we speak privately for a moment? As usual, Adolins black-peppered blond hair was an unruly mop. Hed changed from his Plate and bathed, and now he wore a fashionable though battle-worthyuniform with a long blue coat, buttoned at the sides, and straight, stiff brown trousers beneath. Im not ready to discuss that as yet, son, Dalinar said softly. I need a little more time.