what weve been givenwhether it be the crown or the Nahel bondneeds to make us better. He seemed to expect something from Dalinar. But what? I can read your disagreement in your face, the regal man said. Its all right, Karm. I realize that my thoughts on this subject are unconventional. Perhaps the rest of you are right, perhaps our abilities are proof of a divine election. But if this is true, should we not be more wary of how we act? Dalinar frowned. That sounded familiar to him. The regal man sighed, walking to the balcony lip. Dalinar joined him, stepping outside. The perspective finally allowed him to look down on the landscape below. Thousands of corpses confronted him. Dalinar gasped. Dead filled the streets of the city outside, a city that Dalinar vaguely recognized. Kholinar, he thought. My homeland. He stood with the regal man at the top of a low tower, three stories higha keep of some sort, constructed of stone. It seemed to sit where the palace would someday be. The city was unmistakable, with its peaked stone formations rising like enormous fins into the air. The windblades, they were called. But they were less weathered than he was accustomed to, and the city around them was very different. Built of blocky stone structures, many of which had been knocked down. The destruction spread far, lining the sides of primitive streets. Had the city been hit by an earthquake? No, those corpses had fallen in battle. Dalinar could smell the stench of blood, viscera, smoke. The bodies lay strewn about, many near the low wall that surrounded the keep. The wall was broken in places, smashed. And there were rocks of strange shape mixed about the corpses. Stones cut like Blood of my fathers, Dalinar thought, gripping the stone railing, leading forward. Those arent stones. Theyre creatures. Massive creatures, easily five or six times the size of a person, their skin dull and grey like granite. They had long limbs and skeletal bodies, the forelegsor were they arms?set into wide shoulders. The faces were lean, narrow. Arrowlike. What happened here? Dalinar asked despite himself. Its terrible! I ask myself this same thing. How could we let this occur? The Desolations are well named. Ive heard initial counts. Eleven years of war, and nine out of ten people I once ruled are dead. Do we even have kingdoms to lead any longer? Sur is gone, Im sure of it. Tarma, Eiliz, they wont likely survive. Too many of their people have fallen. Dalinar had never heard of those places. The man made a fist, pounding it softly against the railing. Burning stations had been set up in the distance; they had begun cremating the corpses. The