chit of admittance, Brightness. How much does one cost? Shallan asked hesitantly. A thousand sapphire broams. So much? The kings many hospitals require much upkeep, the man said apologetically. The only things Kharbranth has to sell are fish, bells, and information. The first two are hardly unique to us. But the thirdwell, the Palanaeum has the finest collection of tomes and scrolls on Roshar. More, even, than the Holy Enclave in Valath. At last count, there were over seven hundred thousand separate texts in our archive. Her father had owned exactly eighty-seven books. Shallan had read them all several times over. How much could be contained in seven hundred thousand books? The weight of that much information dazzled her. She found herself hungering to look through those hidden shelves. She could spend months just reading their titles. But no. Perhaps once shed made certain her brothers were safeonce her houses finances were restoredshe could return. Perhaps. She felt like she was starving, yet leaving a warm fruit pie uneaten. Where might I wait? she asked. If someone I know is inside. You may use one of the reading alcoves, the servant said, relaxing. Perhaps hed feared that she would make a scene. No chit is required to sit in one. There are parshman porters who will raise you to the higher levels, if that is what you wish. Thank you, Shallan said, turning her back on the Palanaeum. She felt like a child again, locked in her room, not allowed to run through the gardens because of her fathers paranoid fears. Does Brightness Jasnah have an alcove yet? I can ask, the servant said, leading the way back into the Veil, with its distant, unseen ceiling. He hurried off to speak with some others, leaving Shallan standing beside the doorway to the Palanaeum. She could run in. Sneak through No. Her brothers teased her for being too timid, but it was not timidity that held her back. There would undoubtedly be guards; bursting in would not only be futile, it would ruin any chance she had of changing Jasnahs mind. Change Jasnahs mind, prove herself. Considering it made her sick. She hated confrontation. During her youth, shed felt like a piece of delicate crystalware, locked in a cabinet to be displayed but never touched. The only daughter, the last memory of Brightlord Davars beloved wife. It still felt odd to her that she been the one to take charge afterAfter the incidentAfter