ardent, which meant technically she didnt need one. The bread had been purchased from a Thaylen bakery, which meant it was fluffy and brown. And, since he was an ardent, it didnt matter that jam was a feminine foodthey could enjoy it together. She eyed him as he cut the bread. The ardents in her fathers employ had all been crusty men or women in their later years, stern-eyed and impatient with children. Shed never even considered that the devotaries would attract young men like Kabsal. During these last few weeks, shed found herself thinking of him in ways that would better have been avoided. Have you considered, he noted, what kind of person you declare yourself to be by preferring simberry jam? I wasnt aware that my taste in jams could be that significant. There are those who have studied it, Kabsal said, slathering on the thick red jam and handing her the slice. You run across some very odd books, working in the Palanaeum. Its not hard to conclude that perhaps everything has been studied at one time or another. Hum, Shallan said. And simberry jam? According to Palates of Personality and before you object, yes it is a real book, and that is its titlea fondness for simberries indicates a spontaneous, impulsive personality. And also a preference for He cut off as a wadded-up piece of paper bounced off his forehead. He blinked. Sorry, Shallan said. It just kind of happened. Must be all that impulsiveness and spontaneity I have. He smiled. You disagree with the conclusions? I dont know, she said with a shrug. Ive had people tell me they could determine my personality based on the day I was born, or the position of Talns Scar on my seventh birthday, or by numerological extrapolations of the tenth glyphic paradigm. But I think were more complicated than that. People are more complicated than the numerological extrapolations of the tenth glyphic paradigm? Kabsal said, spreading jam on a piece of bread for himself. No wonder I have such difficulty understanding women. Very funny. I mean that were more complex than mere bundles of personality traits. Am I spontaneous? Sometimes. You might describe my chasing Jasnah here to become her ward that way. But before that, I spent seventeen years being about as un spontaneous as someone could be. In many situationsif Im encouragedmy tongue can be quite spontaneous, but my actions rarely are. Were all spontaneous sometimes, and were all conservative sometimes. So youre saying that the book is right then. It says youre spontaneous;