nature of the campsome stone structures, some wooden shanties, some tents made it feel disorganized and dangerous. Kaladin and his two companions stepped aside for a large group of soldiers. Their coats were unbuttoned, and they were only mildly drunk. A soldier eyed the bridgemen, but the three of them togetherone of them being a brawny Horneaterwere enough to dissuade the soldier from doing more than laughing and shoving Kaladin as he passed. The man smelled of sweat and cheap ale. Kaladin kept his temper. Fight back, and hed be docked pay for brawling. I dont like this, Teft said, glancing over his shoulder at the group of soldiers. Im going back to the camp. You will be staying, Rock growled. Teft rolled his eyes. You think Im scared of a lumbering chull like you? Ill go if I want to, and Teft, Kaladin said softly. We need you. Need. That word had strange effects on men. Some ran when you used it. Others grew nervous. Teft seemed to long for it. He nodded, muttering to himself, but stayed with them as they went on. They soon reached the wagonyard. The fenced-off square of rock was near the western side of the camp. It was deserted for the night, the wagons sitting in long lines. Chulls lay slumbering in the nearby pen, looking like small hills. Kaladin crept forward, wary of sentries, but apparently nobody worried about something as large as a wagon being stolen from the middle of the army. Rock nudged him, then pointed to the shadowy chull pens. A lone boy sat upon a pen post, staring up at the moon. Chulls were valuable enough to watch over. Poor lad. How often was he required to wait up nights guarding the sluggish beasts? Kaladin crouched down beside a wagon, the other two mimicking him. He pointed down one row, and Rock moved off. Kaladin pointed the other direction, and Teft rolled his eyes, but did as asked. Kaladin sneaked down the middle row. There were about thirty wagons, ten per row, but checking was quick. A brush of the fingers against the back plank, looking for the mark hed made there. After just a few minutes, a shadowed figure entered Kaladins row. Rock. The Horneater gestured to the side and held up five fingers. Fifth wagon from the top. Kaladin nodded and moved off. Just as he reached the indicated wagon, he heard a soft yelp from the direction Teft had gone. Kaladin flinched, then peeked up toward the sentry. The boy was still watching the moon, kicking his toes absently against the post next to him.