occasion, as I did with your study of morality. But I intend such tangents to be adjuncts to your current projects. Those must be the focus, not long-lost historical conundrums. Shallan nodded. But Jasnah, arent you a historian ? Arent those long-lost historical conundrums the meat of your field? Im a Veristitalian, Jasnah said. We search for answers in the past, reconstructing what truly happened. To many, writing a history is not about truth, but about presenting the most flattering picture of themselves and their motives. My sisters and I choose projects that we feel were misunderstood or misrepresented, and in studying them hope to better understand the present. Why, then, are you spending so much time studying folktales and looking for evil spirits? No, Jasnah was searching for something real. Something so important that it drew her away from the Shattered Plains and the fight to avenge her father. She intended to do something with those folktales, and Shallans research was part of it, somehow. That excited her. It was the sort of thing shed wanted since shed been a child, looking through her fathers few books, frustrated that hed chased off yet another tutor. Here, with Jasnah, Shallan was part of somethingand, knowing Jasnah, it was something big . And yet, she thought. Tozbeks ship arrives tomorrow morning. Ill be leaving. I need to start complaining. I need to convince Jasnah that this was all so much harder than I anticipated, so that when I leave she wont be surprised. I need to cry, break down, give up. I need to What is Urithiru? Shallan found herself asking instead. To her surprise, Jasnah answered without hesitation. Urithiru was said to be the center of the Silver Kingdoms, a city that held ten thrones, one for each king. It was the most majestic, most amazing, most important city in all the world. Really? Why hadnt I heard of it before? Because it was abandoned even before the Lost Radiants turned against mankind. Most scholars consider it just a myth. The ardents refuse to speak of it, due to its association with the Radiants, and therefore with the first major failure of Vorinism. Much of what we know about the city comes from fragments of lost works quoted by classical scholars. Many of those classical works have, themselves, survived only in pieces. Indeed, the single complete work we have from early years is The Way of Kings, and that is only because of the Vanrials efforts. Shallan nodded slowly. If there were ruins of a magnificent, ancient city hidden somewhere, Natanatanunexplored, overgrown, wildwould be the