guards to complement the breastplates. The helms were built from several different headpieces, and had been ornamentedat Leytens insistencewith ridges and cuts, like tiny horns or the edges of a crabs shell. The breastplates and guards were ornamented as well, cut into toothlike patterns, each one reminiscent of a saw blade. Earless Jaks had bought blue and white paint and drawn designs across the orange armor. Each member of Bridge Four carried a large wooden shield strapped tightly nowwith red Parshendi bones. Ribs, for the most part, shaped in spiral patterns. Some of the men had tied finger bones to the centers so they would rattle, and others had attached protruding sharp ribs to the sides of their helms, giving them the look of fangs or mandibles. The onlookers watched with amazement. It wasnt the first time theyd seen this armor, but this would be the first run where every man of Bridge Four had it. All together, it made an impressive sight. Ten days, with six bridge runs, had allowed Kaladin and his team to perfect their method. Five men to be decoys with five more in the front holding shields and using only one arm to support the bridge. Their numbers were augmented by the wounded theyd saved from other crews, now strong enough to help carry. So fardespite six bridge runsthere hadnt been a single fatality. The other bridgemen were whispering about a miracle. Kaladin didnt know about that. He just made certain to keep a full pouch of infused spheres with him at all times. Most of the Parshendi archers seemed to focus on him. Somehow, they could tell that he was the center of all this. They reached their bridge and formed up, shields strapped to rods on the sides to await use. As they hefted their bridge, a spontaneous round of cheering rose up from the other crews. Thats new, Teft said from Kaladins left. Guess they finally realized what we are, Kaladin said. And whats that? Kaladin settled the bridge onto his shoulders. Were their champions. Bridge forward! They broke into a trot, leading the way down from the staging yard, ushered by cheers. My father is not insane, Adolin thought, alive with energy and excitement as his armorers strapped on his Shardplate.