wanted to lie back and let it happen. But no. No. He had failed Tien. He had failed Goshel. He had failed his parents. He had failed Dallet. Dear Dallet. He would not fail Bridge Four. He would not ! Hypothermia, caused by extreme cold. Warm subject and force him to remain seated. Do not let him sleep. If he survives a few hours, there will likely be no lasting aftereffects. If he survives a few hours Bridgemen werent supposed to survive. Why would Lamaril say that? What army would employ men who were supposed to die? His perspective had been too narrow, too shortsighted. He needed to understand the armys objectives. He watched the battles progress, horrified. What had he done? He needed to go back and change it. But no. He was wounded, wasnt he? He was bleeding on the ground. He was one of the fallen spearmen. He was a bridgeman from Bridge Two, betrayed by those fools in Bridge Four, who diverted all of the archers. How dare they? How dare they? How dare they survive by killing me! Strained tendons, ripped muscles, bruised and cracked bones, and pervasive soreness caused by extreme conditions. Enforce bed rest by any means necessary. Check for large and persistent bruises or pallor caused by internal hemorrhaging. That can be life-threatening. Be prepared for surgery. He saw the deathspren. They were fist-size and black, with many legs and deep red eyes that glowed, leaving trails of burning light. They clustered around him, skittering this way and that. Their voices were whispers, scratchy sounds like paper being torn. They terrified him, but he couldnt escape them. He could barely move. Only the dying could see deathspren. You saw them, then died. Only the very, very lucky few survived after that. Deathspren knew when the end was close. Blistered fingers and toes, caused by frostnip. Make sure to apply antiseptic to any blisters that break. Encourage the bodys natural healing. Permanent damage is unlikely. Standing before the deathspren was a tiny figure of light. Not translucent, as she had always appeared before, but of pure white light. That soft, feminine face had a nobler, more angular cast to it now, like a warrior from a forgotten time. Not childlike at all. She stood guard on his chest, holding a sword made of light.