wouldnt see you dead by their knives; I see a fine man within you. Yes, Wit said, scanning the platform. He tasted quite delicious. Dalinar, I fear Im not the one who needs that warning. Speak your fears at a mirror a few times when you get home tonight. There are rumors about. Rumors? Yes. Terrible things. Grow on men like warts. Tumors? Both. Look, there is talk about you. There is always talk about me. This is worse than most, Wit said, meeting his eyes. Did you really speak of abandoning the Vengeance Pact? Dalinar took a deep breath. That was between me and the king. Well, he must have spoken of it to others. This lot are cowardsand no doubt that makes them feel like experts on the subject, for theyve certainly been calling you that a great deal lately. Stormfather! No, Im Wit. But I understand how easy a mistake that is to make. Because you blow so much air, Dalinar growled, or because you make so much noise? A wide smile split Wits face. Why, Dalinar! Im impressed! Maybe I should make you Wit! Then I could be a highprince instead. He stopped. No, that would be bad. Id go mad after a mere second of listening to them, then would likely slaughter the lot. Perhaps appoint cremlings in their places. The kingdom would undoubtedly fare better. Dalinar turned to go. Thank you for the warning. Wit sat back down on his stool as Dalinar walked away. Youre welcome. Ah, Brightlord Habatab! How thoughtful of you to wear a red shirt with a sunburn like that! If you continue to make my job this easy, I fear my mind shall become as dull as Brightlord Tumuls! Oh, Brightlord Tumul! How unexpected it is to see you standing there! I didnt mean to insult your stupidity. Really, its quite spectacular and worthy of much praise. Lord Yonatan and Lady Meirav, Ill forgo an insult for you this once on account of your recent wedding, though I do find your hat quite impressive, Yonatan. I trust it is convenient to wear on your head something that doubles as a tent at night. Ah, and is that Lady Navani behind you? How long have you been back at the Plains and how did I not notice the smell? Dalinar froze. What? Obviously your own stench overpowered mine, Wit, a warm feminine voice said. Has no one done my son a service and assassinated you yet?