Isnt that a type of drink? Adolin asked. Er, no, Brightlord. Im fairly certain its another word for walking. Well, then, Adolin said. Well do plenty of it too. Promenading. I always love a good promenading. He rubbed his chin, taking the strap back. How certain are you about this strap? Theres really no room for question, Brightlord, Avaran said. Thats not a simple tear. You should be more careful. Careful? Yes, Avaran said. Make sure that no loose buckles are scraping the leather, cutting into it. This looks like it came from a saddle. Sometimes, people let the girth straps hang down when setting the saddle for the night, and they get pinched underneath something. Id guess that caused the slice. Oh, Adolin said. You mean it wasnt cut intentionally? Well, it could have been that, Avaran said. But why would someone cut a girth like this? Why indeed, Adolin thought. He bid farewell to the two leatherworkers, tucked the strap into his pocket, then held out his elbow to Janala. She took it with her freehand, obviously happy to finally be free of the leather-working shop. It had a faint odor about it, though not nearly as bad as a tannery. Hed seen her reaching for her handkerchief a few times, acting as if she wanted to hold it up to her nose. They stepped out into the midday sunlight. Tibon and Markstwo lighteyed members of the Cobalt Guardwaited outside with Janalas handmaiden, Falksi, who was a young Azish darkeyes. The three fell into step behind Adolin and Janala as they walked out onto the street of the warcamp, Falksi muttering under her breath in an accented voice about the lack of a proper palanquin for her mistress. Janala didnt seem to mind. She breathed deeply of the open air and clung to his arm. She was quite beautiful, even if she did like to talk about herself. Talkativeness was normally an attribute he was fond of in a woman, but today he had trouble paying attention as Janala began telling him about the latest court gossip. The strap had been cut, but the leatherworkers had both assumed that it was the result of an accident. That implied theyd seen cuts like this before. A loose buckle or other mishap slicing the leather. Except this time, that cut had thrown the king in the middle of a fight. Could there be something to it? wouldnt you say, Adolin? Janala asked. Undoubtedly, he said, listening with half an ear.