hallway. Most of the women hereservants includedwore their hair bound, and Shallan felt conspicuous with hers loose. The deep red color made her stand out even more. Soon, the grand hallway began to slope down steeply. But when the half- hour arrived, she could still hear distant bells ring behind her. Perhaps that was why the people here liked them so much; even in the depths of the Conclave, one could hear the outside world. The servant led Shallan to a pair of grand steel doors. The servant bowed and Shallan dismissed her with a nod. Shallan couldnt help but admire the beauty of the doors; their exterior was carved in an intricate geometric pattern with circles and lines and glyphs. It was some kind of chart, half on each door. There was no time to study the details, unfortunately, and she passed them by. Beyond the doors was a breathtakingly large room. The sides were of smooth rock and they stretched high; the dim illumination made it impossible to tell just how high, but she saw flickers of distant light. Set into the walls were dozens of small balconies, much like the private box seats of a theater. Soft light shone from many of these. The only sounds were turning pages and faint whispers. Shallan raised her safehand to her breast, feeling dwarfed by the magnificent chamber. Brightness? a young male master-servant said, approaching. What do you need? A new sense of perspective, apparently, Shallan said absently. How This room is called the Veil, the servant explained softly. That which comes before the Palanaeum itself. Both were here when the city was founded. Some think these chambers might have been cut by the Dawnsingers themselves. Where are the books? The Palanaeum proper is this way. The servant gestured, leading her to a set of doors on the other side of the room. Through them, she entered a smaller chamber that was partitioned with walls of thick crystal. Shallan approached the nearest one, feeling it. The crystals surface was rough like hewn rock. Soulcast? she asked. The servant nodded. Behind him, another servant passed leading an elderly ardent. Like most ardents, the aged man had a shaved head and a long beard. His simple grey robes were tied with a brown sash. The servant led him around a corner, and Shallan could vaguely make out their shapes on the other side, shadows swimming through the crystal. She took a step forward, but her servant cleared his throat. I will need your