The day is right, friend, Grump said. But we were to meet at noon. Understand? He generally did most of the talking. Were close to that, Ishikk said. Honestly. Who paid attention to what hour it was? Foreigners. Always so busy. Grump just shook his head as Maib brought them some soup. Her place was the closest thing the village had to an inn. She left Ishikk a soft cloth napkin and nice cup of sweet wine, trying to balance that fish as quickly as possible. Very well, Grump said. Let us have your report, friend. Ive been by Fu Ralis, Fu Namir, Fu Albast, and Fu Moorin this month, Ishikk said, taking a slurp of soup. Nobody has seen this man you search for. You asked right questions? Blunt said. You are certain? Of course Im certain, Ishikk said. I have been doing this for ages now. Five months, Blunt corrected. And no results. Ishikk shrugged. You wish me to make up stories? Vun Makak would like me to do that. No, no stories, friend, Grump said. We want only the truth. Well, Ive given it to you. You swear it by Nu Ralik, that god of yours? Hush! Ishikk said. Dont say his name. Are you idiots? Grump frowned. But he is your god. Understand? Is his name holy? Not to be spoken? Foreigners were so stupid. Of course Nu Ralik was their god, but you always pretended that he wasnt. Vun Makakhis younger, spiteful brotherhad to be tricked into thinking you worshipped him, otherwise hed get jealous. It was only safe to speak of these things in a holy grotto. I swear it by Vun Makak, Ishikk said pointedly. May he watch over me and curse me as he pleases. I have looked diligently. No foreigner like this one you mentionwith his white hair, clever tongue, and arrowlike facehas been seen. He dyes his hair sometimes, Grump said. And wears disguises. Ive asked, using the names you gave me, Ishikk said. Nobody has seen him. Now, perhaps I could find you a fish that could locate him. Ishikk rubbed his stubbly chin. Ill bet a stumpy cort could do it. Might take me a while to find one, though. The three looked at him. There may be something to these fish, you know, Blunt said. Superstition, Grump replied. You always look for superstition, Vao. Vao wasnt the mans real name; Ishikk was sure they used fake names. That was why he used his own names for them. If they were going to give him fake