wishing he could join the others and enjoy a little wine. Instead, he climbed down from his horse and went looking for his father. Dalinar stood outside the awning, gauntleted hands clasped behind his back, looking eastward, toward the Originthe distant, the unseen place where highstorms began. Renarin stood at his side, looking out as well, as if trying to see what it was that his father found so interesting. Adolin rested a hand on his brothers shoulder, and Renarin smiled at him. Adolin knew that his brothernow nineteen years oldfelt out of place. Though he wore a side sword, he barely knew how to use it. His blood weakness made it difficult for him to spend any reasonable amount of time practicing. Father, Adolin said. Maybe the king was right. Perhaps we should have moved on quickly. Id rather have this entire hunt over with. Dalinar looked at him. When I was your age, I looked forward to a hunt like this. Taking down a greatshell was the highlight of a young mans year. Not this again, Adolin thought. Why was everyone so offended that he didnt find hunts exciting? Its just an oversized chull, Father. These oversized chulls grow to fifty feet tall and are capable of crushing even a man in Shardplate. Yes, Adolin said, and so well bait it for hours while baking in the hot sun. If it decides to show up, well pelt it with arrows, only closing in once its so weak it can barely resist as we hack it to death with Shardblades. Very honorable. Its not a duel, Dalinar said, its a hunt. A grand tradition. Adolin raised an eyebrow at him. And yes, Dalinar added. It can be tedious. But the king was insistent. Youre just still smarting over the problems with Rilla, Adolin, Renarin said. You were eager a week ago. You really should have invited Janala. Janala hates hunts. Thinks theyre barbarous. Dalinar frowned. Janala? Whos Janala? Daughter of Brightlord Lustow, Adolin said. And youre courting her? Not yet, but Ive sure been trying. What happened to that other girl? The short one, with the fondness for silver hair ribbons? Deeli? Adolin said. Father, I stopped courting her over two months back! You did? Yes. Dalinar rubbed his chin.