the peaks of Darathe myth changes, listing different modern mountain ranges as the true peaks of Darato find stones touched by the Heralds themselves. She brought them to Nadris on his deathbed and harvested his seed to bring life to the stones. They hatched forth ten children, which she used to found a new nation. Marnah, I believe it was called. Origin of the Makabaki, Renarin said. Mother told me that story when I was a child. Dalinar shook his head. Born from rocks? The old stories rarely made much sense to him, although the devotaries had canonized many of them. The story mentions the Desolations at the beginning, Navani said. Giving them credit for having wiped out Parasaphis people. But what were they? Wars. Navani took a sip of wine. The Voidbringers came again and again, trying to force mankind off Roshar and into Damnation. Just as they once forced mankindand the Heraldsout of the Tranquiline Halls. When were the Knights Radiant founded? Dalinar asked. Navani shrugged. I dont know. Perhaps they were some military group from a specific kingdom, or perhaps they were originally a mercenary band. That would make it easy to see how they could eventually become tyrants. My visions dont imply that they were tyrants, he said. Perhaps that is the true purpose of the visions. To make me believe lies about the Radiants. Making me trust them, perhaps trying to lead me to mimic their downfall and betrayal. I dont know, Navani said, sounding skeptical. I dont think youve seen anything untrue about the Radiants. The legends tend to agree that the Radiants werent always so bad. As much as the legends agree on anything, at least. Dalinar stood and took her nearly empty cup, then walked over to the serving table and refilled it. Discovering that he was not mad should have helped clear things up, but instead left him more disturbed. What if the Voidbringers were behind the visions? Some stories he heard said that they could possess the bodies of men and make them do evil. Or, if they were from the Almighty, what was their purpose? I need to think on all of this, he said. It has been a long day. Please, if I could be left to my own thoughts now. Renarin rose and bowed his head in respect before heading to the door. Navani rose more slowly, sleek dress rustling as she set her cup on the table, then walked over to fetch her pain-drinking fabrial. Renarin left, and Dalinar walked to the doorway, waiting as Navani approached. He didnt intend to let her trap him alone again. He looked out the doorway. His soldiers were there, and he could see them. Good.