Who were demons. Who betrayed us, Lirin said, once the Heralds left. Lirin raised a finger. They were not demons, they were just men who had too much power and not enough sense. Either way, you are always to wash your hands. You can see the effect it has on rotspren with your own eyes, even if deathspren cannot be seen. Kal sighed again, but did as he was told. Lirin walked over to the table again, bearing a tray lined with knives and little glass bottles. His ways were odd though Lirin made certain that his son didnt mix up the Heralds and the Lost Radiants, Kal had heard his father say that he thought the Voidbringers werent real. Ridiculous. Who else could be blamed when things went missing in the night, or when a crop got infected with digger-worms? The others in town thought Lirin spent too much time with books and sick people, and that made him strange. They were uncomfortable around him, and with Kal by association. Kal was only just beginning to realize how painful it could feel to be different. Hands washed, he hopped back up onto the stool. He began to feel nervous again, hoping that nothing would go wrong. His father used a mirror to focus the spheres light onto Sanis hand. Gingerly, he cut off the makeshift bandage with a surgeons knife. The wound wasnt life-threatening, but the hand was pretty badly mangled. When his father had started training Kal two years before, sights like this had sickened him. Now he was used to torn flesh. That was good. Kal figured this would be useful when he went to war someday, to fight for his highprince and the lighteyes. Sani had three broken fingers and the skin on her hand was scraped and gouged, the wound cluttered with sticks and dirt. The third finger was the worst, shattered and twisted nastily, splinters of bone protruding through the skin. Kal felt its length, noting the fractured bones, the blackness on the skin. He carefully wiped away dried blood and dirt with a wet cloth, picking out rocks and sticks as his father cut thread for sewing. The third finger will have to go, wont it? Kal said, tying a bandage around the base of the finger to keep it from bleeding. His father nodded, a hint of a smile on his face. Hed hoped Kal would discern that. Lirin often said that a wise surgeon must know what to remove and what to save. If that third finger had been set properly at firstbut no, it was beyond recovery. Sewing it back together would mean leaving it to fester and die. His father did the actual amputation. He had such careful, precise hands. Training as a surgeon took over ten years, and it would be some time yet before Lirin let Kal hold the knife. Instead, Kal wiped away blood, handed his father