men replied. If wed seen it, wed have changed it, right we would. But, Brightlord, one of the men added, there was a lot of confusion that day, and a lot of people. Wasnt a right regular plateau assault or nothing like that. And, well, to be honest, sir, whod have thought that wed need to protect the kings saddle, of all things under the Halls? Dalinar nodded to Adolin, and they stepped out of the tent. Well? They probably didnt do much to help our cause, Adolin said with a grimace. Despite their ardor. Or, rather, because of it. Agreed, unfortunately. Dalinar let out a sigh. He waved to Tadet; the short ardent was standing to the side of the tent. Interview them separately, Dalinar told him softly. See if you can tease specifics from them. Try to find out the exact words Sadeas used, and what their exact responses were. Yes, Brightlord. Come, Adolin, Dalinar said. Weve still got a few inspections to do. Father, Adolin said, taking Dalinars arm. Their armor clinked softly. Dalinar turned to him, frowning, and Adolin made a quick gesture toward the Cobalt Guard. A request for space to speak. The guards moved efficiently and quickly, clearing a private space around the two men. What is this about, Father? Adolin demanded softly. What? Were doing inspections and seeing to camp business. And in each case, you shove me out into the lead, Adolin said. Awkwardly, in a few cases, I might add. Whats wrong? Whats going on inside that head of yours? I thought you had a distinct problem with the things going on inside my head. Adolin winced. Father, I No, its all right, Adolin. Im just trying to make a difficult decision. It helps me to move about while I do it. Dalinar grimaced. Another man might find a place to sit and brood, but that never seems to help me. Ive got too much to do. What is it youre trying to decide? Adolin asked. Perhaps I can help. You already have. I Dalinar cut off, frowning. A small force of soldiers was walking up to the Fifth Battalions practice yards. They were escorting a man in red and brown. Those were Thanadals colors. Dont you have a meeting with him this evening? Adolin asked. Yes, Dalinar said. Niterhead of the Cobalt Guardran to intercept the newcomers. He could be overly suspicious at times, but that wasnt a terrible trait for a bodyguard to have. He returned to Dalinar and Adolin shortly. Tanfaced, Niter bore a black