extras to compensate. Gaz generally tried to assign new bridgemen to crews based on their height. That didnt hold for Bridge Four, of course. Bridge Four just got the leftovers. Kaladin pointed to several rods and struts. We could grab here, then run straight forward, carrying the bridge on its side to our right at a slant. We put our taller men on the outside and our shorter men on the inside. What good would that do? Rock asked, frowning. Kaladin glanced at Gaz, who was watching from nearby. Uncomfortably close. Best not to speak of why he really wanted to carry the bridge on its side. Besides, he didnt want to get the mens hopes up until he knew if it would work. I just want to experiment, he said. If we can shift positions occasionally, it might be easier. Work different muscles. Syl frowned as she stood on the top of the bridge. She always frowned when Kaladin obscured the truth. Gather the men, Kaladin said, waving to Rock, Teft, Skar, and Moash. Hed named the four as his subsquad commanders, something that bridgemen didnt normally have. But soldiers worked best in smaller groups of six or eight. Soldiers, Kaladin thought. Is that how I think of them? They didnt fight. But yes, they were soldiers. It was too easy to underestimate men when you considered them to be just bridgemen. Charging straight at enemy archers without shields took courage. Even when you were compelled to do it. He glanced to the side, noticing that Moash hadnt left with the other three. The narrow-faced man had dark green eyes and brown hair flecked with black. Something wrong, soldier? Kaladin asked. Moash blinked in surprise at the use of the word, but he and the others had grown to expect all kinds of unorthodoxy from Kaladin. Why did you make me leader of a subsquad? Because you resisted my leadership longer than almost any of the others. And you were flat-out more vocal about it than any of them. You made me a squad leader because I refused to obey you? I made you squad leader because you struck me as capable and intelligent. But beyond that, you werent swayed too easily. Youre strong-willed. I can use that. Moash scratched his chin, with its short beard. All right then. But unlike Teft and that Horneater, I dont think youre a gift straight from the Almighty. I dont trust you. Then why obey me?