She lay back on the bed, resting, staring up at the brown stone ceiling, cut like the rest of the Conclavedirectly out of the mountain. Here, the stone had been left intentionally rough, evoking the roof of a cave. It was quite beautiful in a subtle way shed never noticed before, the colors and contours of the rock rippling like a disturbed pond. She took a sheet from her portfolio and began to sketch the rock patterns. One sketch to calm her, and then she would get back to the Soulcaster. Perhaps she should try it on her other hand again. She couldnt capture the colors of the strata, not in charcoal, but she could record the fascinating way the strata wove together. Like a work of art. Had some stoneworker cut this ceiling intentionally, crafting this subtle creation, or was it an accident of nature? She smiled, imagining some overworked stonecutter noticing the beautiful grain of the rock and deciding to form a wave pattern for his own personal wonder and sense of beauty. What are you? Shallan yelped, sitting up, sketchpad bouncing free of her lap. Someone had whispered those words. Shed heard them distinctly! Who is there? she asked. Silence. Whos there! she said more loudly, her heart beating quickly. Something sounded outside her door, from the sitting room. Shallan jumped, hiding the hand wearing the Soulcaster under a pillow as the door creaked open, revealing a wizened palace maid, darkeyed and dressed in a white and black uniform. Oh dear! the woman exclaimed. I had no idea you were here, Brightness. She bowed low. A palace maid. Here to clean the room, an everyday occurrence. Focused on her meditation, Shallan hadnt heard her enter. Why did you speak to me? Speak to you, Brightness? You No, the voice had been a whisper, and it had quite distinctly come from inside Shallans room. It couldnt have been the maid. She shivered and glanced about. But that was foolish. The tiny room was easily inspected. There were no Voidbringers hiding in the corners or under her bed. What, then, had she heard? Noises from the woman cleaning, obviously. Shallans mind had just interpreted those random sounds as words. Forcing herself to relax, Shallan looked out past the maid into the sitting room. The woman had cleaned up the wineglass and crumbs. A broom leaned against the wall. In addition, Jasnahs door was cracked open. Were you in