It was dark outside. He was on the wooden balcony; the force of the blow had thrown him through the doors. Something was thumping. Heavy footfalls. The Shardbearer! Szeth stumbled to his feet, vision swimming. Blood streamed from the side of his face, and Stormlight rose from his skin, blinding his left eye. The Light. It would heal him, if it could. His jaw felt unhinged. Broken? Hed dropped his Shardblade. A lumbering shadow moved in front of him; the Shardbearers armor had leaked enough Stormlight that the king was having trouble walking. But he was coming. Szeth screamed, kneeling, infusing Stormlight into the wooden balcony, Lashing it downward. The air frosted around him. The tempest roared, traveling down his arms into the wood. He Lashed it downward, then did it again. He Lashed a fourth time as Gavilar stepped onto the balcony. It lurched under the extra weight. The wood cracked, straining. The Shardbearer hesitated. Szeth Lashed the balcony downward a fifth time. The balcony supports shattered and the entire structure broke free from the building. Szeth screamed through a broken jaw and used his final bit of Stormlight to Lash himself to the side of the building. He fell to the side, passing the shocked Shardbearer, then hit the wall and rolled. The balcony dropped away, the king looking up with shock as he lost his footing. The fall was brief. In the moonlight, Szeth watched solemnlyvision still fuzzy, blinded in one eyeas the structure crashed to the stone ground below. The wall of the palace trembled, and the crash of broken wood echoed from the nearby buildings. Still standing on the side of the wall, Szeth groaned, climbing to his feet. He felt weak; hed used up his Stormlight too quickly, straining his body. He stumbled down the side of the building, approaching the wreckage, barely able to remain standing. The king was still moving. Shardplate would protect a man from such a fall, but a large length of bloodied wood stuck up through Gavilars side, piercing him where Szeth had broken the Plate earlier. Szeth knelt down, inspecting the mans pain-wracked face. Strong features, square chin, black beard flecked with white, striking pale green eyes. Gavilar Kholin. Iexpected youto come, the king said between gasps. Szeth reached underneath the front of the mans breastplate, tapping the straps there. They unfastened, and he pulled the front of the breastplate free, exposing the gemstones on its interior. Two had been cracked and burned out.