different dress, black with light grey piping. She strode toward the room like an arrow and dismissed the guard with a single word as she passed. The man hurried away, his boots louder on the stone floor than Jasnahs slippers. Jasnah came in, and though she made no accusations, her glare was so hostile that Shallan wanted to crawl under her covers and hide. No. She wanted to crawl under the bed, dig down into the floor itself, and put stone between herself and those eyes. She settled for looking downward in shame. You were wise to return the Soulcaster, Jasnah said, voice like ice. It saved your life. I saved your life. Thank you, Shallan whispered. Who are you working with? Which devotary bribed you to steal the fabrial? None of them, Brightness. I stole it of my own volition. Protecting them does you no good. Eventually you will tell me the truth. It is the truth, Shallan said, looking up, feeling a hint of defiance. Its why I became your ward in the first place. To steal that Soulcaster. Yes, but for whom? For me , Shallan said. Is it so hard to believe that I could act for myself? Am I such a miserable failure that the only rational answer is to assume I was duped or manipulated? You have no grounds to raise your voice to me, child, Jasnah said evenly. And you have every reason to remember your place. Shallan looked down again. Jasnah was silent for a time. Finally, she sighed. What were you thinking , child? My father is dead. So? He was not well liked, Brightness. Actually, he was hated , and our family is bankrupt. My brothers are trying to put up a strong front by pretending he still lives. But Dared she tell Jasnah that her father had possessed a Soulcaster? Doing so wouldnt help excuse what Shallan had done, and might get her family more deeply into trouble. We needed something. An edge. A way to earn money quickly, or create money. Jasnah was silent again. When she finally spoke, she sounded faintly amused. You thought your salvation lay in enraging not only all the entire ardentia, but Alethkar? Do you realize what my brother would have done if hed learned of this? Shallan looked away, feeling both foolish and ashamed.