powerful spren. Once youve sought her out and been given your reward and your curse, shes supposed to leave you alone. When did you seek her? Its been many years now, Dalinar said. Then this probably isnt due to her influence, Renarin said. I agree, Dalinar said. But what did you ask for? Adolin said, frowning. My curse and boon are my own, son, Dalinar said. The specifics are not important. But I agree with Renarin, Dalinar said, interrupting. This is probably not the Nightwatcher. All right, fine. But why bring it up? Because, Adolin, Dalinar said, feeling exasperated. I dont know what is happening to me. These visions seem far too detailed to be products of my mind. But your arguments made me think. I could be wrong. Or you could be wrong, and it could be the Almighty. Or it could be something entirely different. We dont know, and that is why it is dangerous for me to be left in command. Well, what I said still holds, Adolin said stubbornly. We can contain it. No, we cant, Dalinar said. Just because it has come only during highstorms in the past doesnt mean it couldnt expand to other times of stress. What if I were struck with an episode on the battlefield? That was the very same reason they didnt let Renarin ride into battle. If that happens, Adolin said, well deal with it. For now, we could just ignore Dalinar threw a hand up into the air. Ignore? I cannot ignore something like this. The visions, the book, the things I feeltheyre changing every aspect of me. How can I rule if I do not follow my conscience? If I continue as highprince, I second-guess my every decision. Either I decide to trust myself, or I step down. I cannot stomach the thought of something in-between. The room fell silent. So what do we do? Adolin said. We make the choice, Dalinar said.  I make the choice. Step down or keep heeding the delusions, Adolin spat. Either way were letting them rule us. And you have a better option? Dalinar demanded. Youve been quick to complain, Adolin, which seems a habit of yours. But I dont see you offering a legitimate alternative. I gave you one, Adolin said. Ignore the visions and move on! I said a legitimate option!