Adolins duel hadnt started yet, and the men who fought right now were lighteyes, but not Shardbearers. Their dull-edged dueling swords were crusted with a white, chalklike substance. When one achieved a hit on the others padded armor, it would leave a visible mark. So, wait, Sadeas said to him. This man who wrote the book Nohadon is his holy name. Others call him Bajerden, though were not certain whether that was actually his real name or not. He decided to walk from where to where? Abamabar to Urithiru, Dalinar said. I think it must have been a great distance, from the way the story is told. Wasnt he a king? Yes. But why Its confusing, Dalinar said. But listen. Youll see. He cleared his throat and continued. I strode this insightful distance on my own, and forbade attendants. I had no steed beyond my well-worn sandals, no companion beside a stout staff to offer conversation with its beats against the stone. My mouth was to be my purse; I stuffed it not with gems, but with song. When singing for sustenance failed me, my arms worked well for cleaning a floor or hogpen, and often earned me a satisfactory reward. Those dear to me took fright for my safety and, perhaps, my sanity. Kings, they explained, do not walk like beggars for hundreds of miles. My response was that if a beggar could manage the feat, then why not a king? Did they think me less capable than a beggar? Sometimes I think that I am. The beggar knows much that the king can only guess. And yet who draws up the codes for begging ordinances? Often I wonder what my experience in lifemy easy life following the Desolation, and my current level of comforthas given me of any true experience to use in making laws. If we had to rely on what we knew, kings would only be of use in creating laws regarding the proper heating of tea and cushioning of thrones. Sadeas frowned at this. In front of them, the two swordsmen continued their duel; Elhokar watched keenly. He loved duels. Bringing in sand to coat the floor of this arena had been one of his first acts at the Shattered Plains. Regardless, Dalinar said, still quoting from The Way of Kings , I made the trip andas the astute reader has already concludedsurvived it. The stories of its excitements will stain a different page in this narrative, for first I must explain my purpose in walking this strange path. Though I was quite willing to let my family think me insane, I would not leave the same as my cognomen upon the winds of history.