of respect would be to show it to the Almighty. I see. And this is how youd respond if the Almighty himself appeared to you here? All of this formality and bowing? She hesitated. Well, no. Ah, and how would you react? I suspect with screams of pain, she said, letting her thought slip out too easily. As it is written that the Almightys glory is such that any who look upon him would immediately be burned to ash. The ardent laughed at that. Wisely spoken indeed. Please, do sit, though. She did so, hesitant. You still appear conflicted, he said, holding up her portrait of Jasnah. What must I do to put you at ease? Shall I step up onto this desk here and do a jig? She blinked in surprise. No objection? Brother Kabsal said. Well, then He set down the portrait and began to climb up on his chair. No, please! Shallan said, holding out her freehand. Are you certain? he glanced at the desk appraisingly. Yes, Shallan said, imagining the ardent teetering and making a misstep, then falling off the balcony and plunging dozens of feet to the ground below. Please, I promise not to respect you any longer! He chuckled, hopping down and seating himself. He leaned closer to her, as if conspiratorially. The table jig threat almost always works. Ive only ever had to go through with it once, due to a lost bet against Brother Lhanin. The master ardent of our monastery nearly keeled over in shock. Shallan found herself smiling. Youre an ardent; youre forbidden to have possessions. What did you bet? Two deep breaths of a winter roses fragrance, said Brother Kabsal, and the sunlights warmth on your skin. He smiled. We can be rather creative at times. Years spent marinating in a monastery can do that to a man. Now, you were about to explain to me where you learned such skill with a pencil. Practice, Shallan said. I should suspect that is how everyone learns, eventually. Wise words again. I am beginning to wonder which of us it the ardent. But surely you had a master to teach you. Dandos the Oilsworn. Ah, a true master of pencils if there ever was one. Now, not that I doubt your word, Brightness, but Im rather intrigued how Dandos Heraldin could have trained you in arts, aslast I checkedhes suffering a rather terminal and