hand. He could barely get the top off. You dont look Ill be fine, Kaladin said again, drinking, then lowering the water. Whats important is that the men are safe. You going to do this every time. Whenever we go to battle? Whatever keeps them safe. Youre not immortal, Kaladin, Teft said softly. The Radiants, they could be killed, just like any man. Sooner or later, one of those arrows will find your neck instead of your shoulder. The Stormlight heals. The Stormlight helps your body heal. Thats different, Im thinking. Teft laid a hand on Kaladins shoulder. We cant lose you, lad. The men need you. Im not going to avoid putting myself in danger, Teft. And Im not going to leave the men to face a storm of arrows if I can do something about it. Well, Teft said, you are going to let a few of us go out there with you. The bridge can manage with twenty-five, if it has to. That leaves us a few extra, just like Rock said. And Ill bet some of those wounded from the other crews we saved are well enough to begin helping carry. They wont dare send them back to their own crews, not so long as Bridge Four is doing what you did today, and helping the whole assault work. I Kaladin trailed off. He could imagine Dallet doing something like this. Hed always said that as sergeant, part of his job was to keep Kaladin alive. All right. Teft nodded, rising. You were a spearman, Teft, Kaladin said. Dont try to deny it. How did you end up here, in these bridge crews? Its where I belong. Teft turned away to supervise the search for wounded. Kaladin sat down, then lay back, waiting for the shock to wear off. To the south, the other armyflying the blue of Dalinar Kholinhad arrived. They crossed to an adjacent plateau. Kaladin closed his eyes to recover. Eventually, he heard something and opened his eyes. Syl sat cross-legged on his chest. Behind her, Dalinar Kholins army had begun an assault onto the battlefield, and they managed to do so without getting fired on. Sadeas had the Parshendi cut off. That was amazing, Kaladin said to Syl. What I did with the arrows. Still think youre cursed? No. I know Im not. He looked up at the overcast sky. But that means the failures were all just me. I let Tien die, I failed my spearmen, the slaves I tried to rescue, Tarah He hadnt thought of her in some time. His failure with her had