tall as she was. She carried it over one shoulder, marching to the center of the grassy circle. She was more fashionable than her babsk; she wore the most modern of clothing for a young woman her age: a deep blue patterned silk vest over a light green long-sleeved shirt with stiff cuffs. Her ankle-length skirtalso green was stiff and businesslike, utilitarian in cut but embroidered for fashion. She wore a green glove on her left hand. Covering the safehand was a silly tradition, just a result of Vorin cultural dominance. But it was best to keep up appearances. Many of the more traditional Thaylen peopleincluding, unfortunately, her babskstill found it scandalous for a woman to go about with her safehand uncovered. She set up the tripod. It had been five months since Vstim become her babsk and she his apprentice. Hed been good to her. Not all babsk were; by tradition, he was more than just her master. He was her father, legally, until he pronounced her ready to become a merchant on her own. She did wish he wouldnt spend so much time traveling to such odd places. He was known as a great merchant, and shed assumed that great merchants would be the ones visiting exotic cities and ports. Not ones who traveled to empty meadows in backward countries. Tripod set up, she returned to the wagon to fetch the fabrial. The wagon back formed an enclosure with thick sides and top to offer protection against highstormseven the weaker ones in the West could be dangerous, at least until one got through the passes and into Shinovar. She hurried back to the tripod with the fabrials box. She slid off the wooden top and removed the large heliodor inside. The pale yellow gemstone, at least two inches in diameter, was fixed inside a metal framework. It glowed gently, not as bright as one might expect of such a sizable gem. She set it in the tripod, then spun a few of the dials underneath, setting the fabrial to the people in the caravan. Then she pulled a stool from the wagon and sat down to watch. Shed been astonished at what Vstim had paid for the device one of the new, recently invented types that would give warning if people approached. Was it really so important? She sat back, looking up at the gemstone, watching to see if it grew brighter. The odd grass of the Shin lands waved in the wind, stubbornly refusing to withdraw, even at the strongest of gusts. In the distance rose the white peaks of the Misted Mountains, sheltering Shinovar. Those mountains caused the highstorms to break and fade, making Shinovar one of the only places in all of Roshar where highstorms did not reign. The plain around her was dotted with strange, straight-trunked trees with