The slave hadnt uttered a cry of pain or protest. His corpse slumped over in the darkness; Bluth casually picked it up and slung it over his shoulder. No! Kaladin yelled, leaping across the cage and slamming his hands against the bars. Tvlakv stood warming himself by the fire. Storm you! Kaladin screamed. He could have lived, you bastard! Tvlakv glanced at him. Then, leisurely, the slaver walked over, straightening his deep blue knit cap. He would have gotten you all sick, you see. His voice was lightly accented, smashing words together, not giving the proper syllables emphasis. Thaylens always sounded to Kaladin like they were mumbling. I would not lose an entire wagon for one man. Hes past the spreading stage! Kaladin said, slamming his hands against the bars again. If any of us were going to catch it, wed have done so by now. Hope that you dont. I think he was past saving. I told you otherwise! And I should believe you, deserter? Tvlakv said, amused. A man with eyes that smolder and hate? You would kill me. He shrugged. I care not. So long as you are strong when it is time for sales. You should bless me for saving you from that mans sickness. Ill bless your cairn when I pile it up myself, Kaladin replied. Tvlakv smiled, walking back toward the fire. Keep that fury, deserter, and that strength. It will pay me well on our arrival. Not if you dont live that long, Kaladin thought. Tvlakv always warmed the last of the water from the bucket he used for the slaves. Hed make himself tea from it, hanging it over the fire. If Kaladin made sure he was watered last, then powdered the leaves and dropped them into the Kaladin froze, then looked down at his hands. In his haste, hed forgotten that hed been holding the blackbane. Hed dropped the flakes as he slammed his hands against the bars. Only a few bits stuck to his palms, not enough to be potent. He spun to look backward; the floor of the cage was dirty and covered with grime. If the flakes had fallen there, there was no way to collect them. The wind gathered suddenly, blowing dust, crumbs, and dirt out of the wagon and into the night. Even in this, Kaladin failed. He sank down, his back to the bars, and bowed his head. Defeated. That cursed windspren kept darting around him, looking confused.