This might feed into that, Dalinar said. He could read a number of conspiracies out of the two of us entering a relationship. Well, he Horns began sounding loudly from below. Dalinar and Navani stopped to listen and identify the call. Stormfather, Dalinar said. Thats the Tower itself where a chasmfiend has been seen. Its one of the plateaus Sadeas has been watching. Dalinar felt a surge of excitement. Highprinces have failed every time to win a gemheart there. It will be a major victory if he and I can do it together. Navani looked troubled. Youre right about him, Dalinar. We do need him for our cause. But keep him at arms length. Wish me the winds favor. He reached toward her, but then stopped himself. What was he going to do? Embrace her here, in public? That would set off the rumors like fire across a pool of oil. He wasnt ready for that yet. Instead, he bowed to her, then hastened off to answer the call and collect his Shardplate. It wasnt until he was halfway down the path that he paused to consider Navanis choice of words. She had said We need him for our cause. What was their cause? He doubted that Navani knew either. But she had already started to think of them as together in their eff orts. And, he realized, so did he. The horns called, such a pure and beautiful sound to signify the imminence of battle. It caused a frenzy in the lumberyard. The orders had come down. The Tower was to be assaulted againthe very place where Bridge Four had failed, the place where Kaladin had caused a disaster. Largest of the plateaus. Most coveted. Bridgemen ran this way and that for their vests. Carpenters and apprentices rushed out of the way. Matal shouted orders; an actual run was the only time he did that without Hashal. Bridgeleaders, showing a modicum of leadership, bellowed for their teams to line up. A wind whipped the air, blowing wood chips and bits of dried grass into the sky. Men yelled, bells rang. And into this chaos strode Bridge Four, Kaladin at their head. Despite the urgency, soldiers stopped, bridgemen gaped, carpenters and apprentices stilled. Thirty-five men marched in rusty orange carapace armor, expertly crafted by Leyten to fit onto leather jerkins and caps. Theyd cut off arm guards and shin