prove their kill. First he needed those healers to Sir! Toorim said suddenly. Kaladin glanced back at the enemy lines. Stormfather! Toorim exclaimed.  Sir!  Toorim wasnt looking at the enemy lines. Kaladin spun, looking back at friendly ranks. Therebearing down through the soldiers on a horse the color of death itselfwas an impossibility. The man wore shining golden armor. Perfect golden armor, as if this were what every other suit of armor had been designed to imitate. Each piece fit perfectly; there were no holes showing straps or leather. It made the rider look enormous, powerful. Like a god carrying a majestic blade that should have been too big to use. It was engraved and stylized, shaped like flames in motion. Stormfather Kaladin breathed. The Shardbearer broke out of Amarams lines. Hed been riding through them, cutting down men as he passed. For a brief moment, Kaladins mind refused to acknowledge that this creaturethis beautiful divinity could be an enemy. The fact that the Shardbearer had come through their side reinforced that illusion. Kaladins confusion lasted right up until the moment the Shardbearer trampled Cenn, Shardblade dropping and cutting through Dallets head in a single, easy stroke. No! Kaladin bellowed.  No!  Dallets body fell back to the ground, eyes seeming to catch alight, smoke rising from them. The Shardbearer cut down Cyn and trampled Lyndel before moving on. It was all done with nonchalance, like a woman pausing to wipe a spot on the counter.  NO!  Kaladin screamed, charging toward the fallen men of his squad. He hadnt lost anyone this battle! He was going to protect them all! He fell to his knees beside Dallet, dropping his spear. But there was no heartbeat, and those burned-out eyesHe was dead. Grief threatened to overwhelm Kaladin. No! said the part of his mind trained by his father. Save the ones you can! He turned to Cenn. The boy had taken a hoof to the chest, cracking his sternum and shattering ribs. The boy gasped, eyes upward, struggling for breath. Kaladin pulled out a bandage. Then he paused, looking at it. A bandage? To mend a smashed chest? Cenn stopped wheezing. He convulsed once, eyes still open. He watches! the boy hissed. The black piper in the night. He holds us in his palmplaying a tune that no man can hear!