The man nodded to Kaladin, yelling to be heard over the sounds of battle. You command the bridgemen? I do, Kaladin said. Why arent your men moving across the bridge? We are the Cobalt Guard, the man said. Our duty is to protect Brightlord Adolin. The man pointed toward Adolin in his blue Shardplate just ahead. The Shardbearer seemed to be pushing toward something. Wheres the highprince? Kaladin yelled. Were not sure. The man grimaced. His guardsmen have vanished. You have to pull back. The bulk of the army is across. If you remain here, youll be surrounded! We will not leave Brightlord Adolin. Im sorry. Kaladin looked around. The groups of Alethi fighting at the flanks were barely holding their ground, but they wouldnt fall back until ordered. Fine, Kaladin said, raising his spear and pushing his way through to the front line. Here, the Parshendi fought with vigor. Kaladin cut down one by the neck, spinning into the middle of a group, flashing out with his spear. His Stormlight was nearly gone, but these Parshendi had gemstones in their beards. Kaladin breathed injust a little, so as to not reveal himself to the Alethi soldiersand launched into a full attack. The Parshendi fell back before his furious assault, and the few members of the Cobalt Guard around him stumbled away, looking stunned. In seconds, Kaladin had a dozen Parshendi on the ground around him, wounded or dead. That opened a gap, and he tore through, Moash on his heels. A lot of the Parshendi were focused on Adolin, whose blue Shardplate was scraped and cracked. Kaladin had never seen a suit of Shardplate in such a terrible state. Stormlight rose from those cracks in much the way it steamed from Kaladins skin when he heldor useda lot of it. The fury of a Shardbearer at war gave Kaladin pause. He and Moash stopped just outside of the mans fighting range, and the Parshendi ignored the bridgemen, trying with obvious desperation to take down the Shardbearer. Adolin cut down through multiple men at oncebut, as Kaladin had seen only once before, his Blade did not slice flesh. Parshendi eyes burned and blackened, and dozens fell dead, Adolin collecting corpses around him like ripened fruit falling from a tree. And yet, Adolin was obviously struggling. His Shardplate was more than just crackedthere were holes in parts. His helm was gone, though hed replaced it with a regular spearmans cap. His left leg limped, nearly dragging. That Blade of his was deadly, but the Parshendi drew closer and closer. Kaladin didnt dare step into range. Adolin Kholin! he bellowed.