What about them? Could they have created it? He chuckled as they arrived at the lift. That isnt the kind of thing the Dawnsingers did. They were healers, kindly spren sent by the Almighty to care for humans once we were forced out of the Tranquiline Halls. Kind of like the opposite of the Voidbringers. I suppose you could say that. Take us down two levels, she told the parshman lift porters. They began lowering the platform, the pulleys squeaking and wood shaking beneath her feet. If you think to distract me with this conversation, Kabsal noted, folding his arms and leaning back against the railing, you wont be successful. I sat up there with your disapproving mistress for well over an hour, and let me say that it was not a pleasant experience. I think she knows I still intend to try and convert her. Of course she does. Shes Jasnah. She knows practically everything. Except whatever it is she came here to study. The Voidbringers, Shallan said. Thats what shes studying. He frowned. A few moments later, the lift came to a rest on the appropriate floor. The Voidbringers? he said, sounding curious. Shed have expected him to be scornful or amused. No, she thought. Hes an ardent. He believes in them. What were they? she asked, walking out. Not far below, the massive cavern came to a point. There was a large infused diamond there, marking the nadir. We dont like to talk about it, Kabsal said as he joined her. Why not? Youre an ardent. This is part of your religion. An unpopular part. People prefer to hear about the Ten Divine Attributes or the Ten Human Failings. We accommodate them because we, also, prefer that to the deep past. Because she prodded. Because, he said with a sigh, of our failure. Shallan, the devotariesat their coreare still classical Vorinism. That means the Hierocracy and the fall of the Lost Radiants are our shame. He held up his deep blue lantern. Shallan strolled at his side, curious, letting him just talk. We believe that the Voidbringers were real , Shallan. A scourge and a plague. A hundred times they came upon mankind. First casting us from the Tranquiline Halls, then trying to destroy us here on Roshar. They werent just spren that hid under rocks, then came out to steal someones laundry. They were creatures of terrible destructive power, forged in Damnation, created from hate. By whom? Shallan asked.