Shed taken the light from the sphere and given it to the gobletthe spren of the gobletas a bribe to transform. Was that how Soulcasting worked? Or was she just struggling to make connections? Shallan lowered the sketchpad as visitors entered the room and began moving among the patients. Most of the women sat up excitedly as they saw King Taravangian, with his orange robes and kindly, aged air. He paused at each bed to chat. Shed heard that he visited frequently, at least once a week. Eventually he reached Shallans bedside. He smiled at her, sitting as one of his many attendants placed a padded stool for him. And young Shallan Davar. I was so terribly saddened to hear of your accident. I apologize for not coming earlier. Duties of state kept me. It is quite all right, Your Majesty. No, no, it is not, he said. But it is what must be. There are many who complain that I spend too much of my time here. Shallan smiled. Those complaints were never vociferous. The landlords and house lords who played politics in court were quite content with a king who spent so much of his time outside the palace, ignoring their schemes. This hospital is amazing, Your Majesty, she said. I cant believe how well everyone is cared for. He smiled widely. My great triumph. Lighteyes and darkeyes alike, nobody turned awaynot beggar, not whore, not sailor from afar. Its all paid for by the Palanaeum, you know. In a way, even the most obscure and useless record is helping heal the sick. Im glad to be here. I doubt that, child. A hospital such as this one is, perhaps, the only thing a man could pour so much money into and be delighted if it were never used. It is a tragedy that you must become my guest. What I meant was that Id rather be sick here than somewhere else. Though I suppose thats a little like saying its better to choke on wine than on dishwater. He laughed. What a sweet thing you are, he said, rising. Is there anything I can do to improve your stay? End it? Im afraid that I cant allow that, he said, eyes softening. I must defer to the wisdom of my surgeons and nurses. They say that you are still at risk. We must think of your health. Keeping me here gives me health at the expense of my wellness, Your Majesty. He shook his head. You mustnt be allowed to have another accident.