and as Dunny finally started upleaving Rock and Kaladin alonethe tall Horneater put a hand on Kaladins shoulder, speaking in a soft voice. You do good work here, Rock said. I am thinking that in a few weeks, these men will be yours. Kaladin shook his head. Were bridgemen, Rock. We dont have a few weeks. If I take that long winning them over, half of us will be dead. Rock frowned. Is not a happy thought. Thats why we have to win over the other men now . But how? Kaladin looked up at the dangling ladder, shaking as the men climbed up. Only four could go at a time, lest they overload it. Meet me after were searched. Were going to the camp market. Very well, Rock said, swinging onto the ladder as Earless Jaks reached the top. What will be our purpose in this thing? Were going to try out my secret weapon. Rock laughed as Kaladin held the ladder steady for him. And what weapon is this? Kaladin smiled. Actually, its you. Two hours later, at Salass first violet light, Rock and Kaladin walked back into the lumberyard. It was just past sunset, and many of the bridgemen would soon be going to sleep. Not much time, Kaladin thought, gesturing for Rock to carry his burden to a place near the front of Bridge Fours barrack. The large Horneater set his burden down next to Teft and Dunny, who had done as Kaladin had ordered, building a small ring of stones and setting up some stumps of wood from the lumberyard scrap pile. That wood was free for anyone to take. Even bridgemen were allowed; some liked to take chunks to whittle. Kaladin got out a sphere for light. The thing Rock had been carrying was an old iron cauldron. Even though it was secondhand, it had cost Kaladin a fair chunk of the knobweed sap money. The Horneater began to unpack supplies from inside the cauldron as Kaladin arranged some wood scraps inside the ring of stones. Dunny, water, if you please, Kaladin said, getting out his flint. Dunny ran off to fetch a bucket from one of the rain barrels. Rock finished emptying the cauldron, laying out small packages that had cost another substantial portion of