shocked, watching the glowing blue figure rise, then arc downward toward the village. Come, the woman said, voice ringing inside her helm. She began to hurry down the incline. Wait, Dalinar said, hastening after her, Taffa scooping up her daughter and following. Behind them, the oil was burning out. The female knight slowed to allow Dalinar and Taffa to keep pace with her. I must know, Dalinar said, feeling foolish. What year is it? The knight turned to him. Her helm was gone. He blinked; when had that happened? Unlike her companion, she had light skinnot pale like someone from Shinovar, but a natural light tan, like an Alethi. It is Eighth Epoch, three thirty-seven. Eighth Epoch? Dalinar thought. What does that mean? This vision had been different from the others. They had been more brief, for one thing. And the voice that spoke to him. Where was it? Where am I? Dalinar asked the knight. What kingdom? The knight frowned. Are you not healed? I am well. I justI need to know. Which kingdom am I in? This is Natanatan. Dalinar released an inhaled breath. Natanatan. The Shattered Plains lay in the land that had once been Natanatan. The kingdom had fallen centuries ago. And you fight for Natanatans king? he asked. She laughed. The Knights Radiant fight for no king and for all of them. Then where do you live? Urithiru is where our orders are centered, but we live in cities all across Alethela. Dalinar froze in place. Alethela. It was the historical name for the place that had become Alethkar. You cross kingdom borders to fight? Heb, Taffa said. She seemed very concerned. You were the one who promised me that the Radiants would come protect us, just before you went out searching for Seeli. Is your mind still muddled? Lady knight, could you heal him again? I should save Regrowth for others who might be wounded, the woman said, glancing at the village. The fighting seemed to be dying down. Im fine, Dalinar said. AlethkAlethela. You live there? It is our duty and our privilege, the woman said, to stay vigilant for the Desolation. One kingdom to study the arts of war so that the others might have peace. We die so that you may live. It has ever been our place. Dalinar stood still, sorting through that.