at the sound. It was so unexpected, so out of place, that it was startling despite its softness. The sounds were coming from the Plains. Hesitant, yet unable to resist, he walked forward. Eastward, onto the flat, windswept rock. The sounds grew louder as he walked, but they were still haunting, elusive. A flute, though one lower in pitch than most hed heard. As he grew closer, Kaladin smelled smoke. A light was burning out there. A tiny campfire. Kaladin walked out to the edge of this particular peninsula, a chasm growing from the cracks until it plunged down into darkness. At the very tip of the peninsulasurrounded on three sides by chasmKaladin found a man sitting on a boulder, wearing a lighteyess black uniform. A small fire of rockbud shell burned in front of him. The mans hair was short and black, his face angular. He wore a thin, black-sheathed sword at his waist. The mans eyes were a pale blue. Kaladin had never heard of a lighteyed man playing a flute. Didnt they consider music a feminine pursuit? Lighteyed men sang, but they didnt play instruments unless they were ardents. This man was extremely talented. The odd melody he played was alien, almost unreal, like something from another place and time. It echoed down the chasm and came back; it almost sounded like the man was playing a duet with himself. Kaladin stopped a short distance away, realizing that the last thing he wanted to do now was deal with a brightlord, particularly one who was eccentric enough to dress in black and wander out onto the Shattered Plains to practice his flute. Kaladin turned to go. The music cut off. Kaladin paused. I always worry that Ill forget how to play her, a soft voice said from behind. Its silly, I know, considering how long Ive practiced. But these days I rarely give her the attention she deserves. Kaladin turned toward the stranger. His flute was carved from a dark wood that was almost black. The instrument seemed too ordinary to belong to a lighteyes, yet the man held it reverently. What are you doing here? Kaladin asked. Sitting. Occasionally playing. I mean, why are you here? Why am I here? the man asked, lowering his flute, leaning back and relaxing. Why are any of us here? Thats a rather deep question for a first meeting, young bridgeman. I generally prefer introductions before theology. Lunch too, if it can be found. Perhaps a nice nap. Actually, practically anything