A small gemheart is better than none, Dalinar said politely. I hear that you have plans to augment the walls of your warcamp. Hum? Yes. Fill in a few of the gaps, improve the fortification. Ill be certain to tell His Majesty that youll be wanting to purchase extra access to the Soulcasters. Vamah turned to him, frowning. Soulcasters? For lumber, Dalinar said evenly. Surely you dont intend to fill in the walls without using scaffolding? Out here, on these remote plains, its fortunate that we have Soulcasters to provide things like wood, wouldnt you say? Er, yes, Vamah said, expression darkening further. Adolin looked from him to his father. There was a subtext to the conversation. Dalinar wasnt speaking only of wood for the wallsthe Soulcasters were the means by which all of the highprinces fed their armies. The king is quite generous in allowing access to the Soulcasters, Dalinar said. Wouldnt you agree, Vamah? I take your point, Dalinar, Vamah said dryly. No need to keep bashing the rock into my face. Ive never been known as a subtle man, Brightlord, Dalinar said. Just an effective one. He walked away, waving for Adolin to follow. Adolin did so, looking over his shoulder at the other highprince. Hes been complaining vocally about the fees that Elhokar charges to use his Soulcasters, Dalinar said softly. It was the primary form of taxation the king levied on the highprinces. Elhokar himself didnt fight for, or win, gemhearts except on the occasional hunt. He stood aloof from fighting personally in the war, as was appropriate. And so? Adolin said. So I reminded Vamah of how much he relies on the king. I suppose thats important. But what does it have to do with Sadeas? Dalinar didnt answer. He kept walking across the plateau, stepping up to the lip of the chasm. Adolin joined him, waiting. A few seconds later, someone approached from behind in clinking Shardplate, then Sadeas stepped up beside Dalinar at the lip of the chasm. Adolin narrowed his eyes at the man, and Sadeas raised an eyebrow, but said nothing about his presence. Dalinar, Sadeas said, turning his eyes forward, looking out across the Plains. Sadeas. Dalinars voice was controlled and curt. You spoke with Vamah? Yes. He saw through what I was doing. Of course he did. There was a hint of amusement in Sadeass voice. I