I was. But there are those among the ardents who worry that Im a little too interested in you. Theyre right. Ill come see you tomorrow, he said, peeking up over the top of the shalebark. Assuming Im not stuck in indexing all day as a punishment. He smiled at her. If I decide to leave the ardentia, that is my choice, and they cannot forbid itthough they may try to distract me. He scrambled away as she prepared herself to tell him that he was presuming too much. She couldnt get the words out. Perhaps because she was growing less and less certain what she wanted. Shouldnt she be focused on helping her family? By now, Jasnah likely had discovered that her Soulcaster didnt work, but saw no advantage in revealing it. Shallan should leave. She could go to Jasnah and use the terrible experience in the alleyway as an excuse to quit. And yet, she was terribly reluctant. Kabsal was part of that, but he wasnt the main reason. The truth was that, despite her occasional complaints, she loved learning to be a scholar. Even after Jasnahs philosophical training, even after spending days reading book after book. Even with the confusion and the stress, Shallan often felt fulfilled in a way shed never been before. Yes, Jasnah had been wrong to kill those men, but Shallan wanted to know enough about philosophy to cite the correct reasons why. Yes, digging through historical records could be tedious, but Shallan appreciated the skills and patience she was learning; they were sure to be of value when she got to do her own deep research in the future. Days spent learning, lunches spent laughing with Kabsal, evenings chatting and debating with Jasnah. That was what she wanted. And those were the parts of her life that were complete lies. Troubled, she picked up the basket of bread and jam, then made her way back to the Conclave and Jasnahs suite. An envelope addressed to her sat in the waiting bin. Shallan frowned, breaking the seal to look inside. Lass, it read. We got your message. The Winds Pleasure will soon be at port in Kharbranth again. Of course well give you passage and return to your estates. It would be my pleasure to have you aboard. We are Davar men, we are. Indebted to your family. Were making a quick trip over to the mainland, but will hurry to Kharbranth next. Expect us in one weeks time to pick you up.  Captain Tozbek The undertext, written by Tozbeks wife, read even more clearly. Wed happily give you free passage, Brightness, if youre willing to do some scribing for us during the trip. The ledgers badly need to be rewritten.