Where are you going? the figure asked. Gavashaw is dead. I must return to my master. Something hit the floor. Szeth spun, Shardblade down. The figure had dropped something round and heavy. It rolled across the floor toward Szeth. Another head. It came to rest on its side. Szeth froze as he made out the features. The pudgy cheeks were stained with blood, the dead eyes wide with shock: Makkek. How? Szeth demanded. We took him seconds after you left the gambling den. We? Servants of your new master. My Oathstone? The figure opened his hand, revealing a gemstone suspended in his palm by a chain wrapped around his fingers. Sitting beside it, now illuminated, was Szeths Oathstone. The figures face was dark; he wore a mask. Szeth dismissed his Shardblade and went down on one knee. What are your orders? There is a list on the table, the figure said, closing his hand and hiding the Oathstone. It details our masters wishes. Szeth rose and walked over. Beside the head, which rested on a plate to contain the blood, was a sheet of paper. He took it, and his Stormlight illuminated some two dozen names written in the warriors script of his homeland. Some had a note beside them with instructions on how they were to be killed. Glories within, Szeth thought. These are some of the most powerful people in the world! Six highprinces? A Selay gerontarch? The king of Jah Keved? It is time you stopped wasting your talent, the figure said, walking to the far wall, resting his hand upon it. This will cause chaos, Szeth whispered. Infighting. War. Confusion and pain such as the world has rarely known. The chained gemstone on the mans palm flashed. The wall vanished, turned to smoke. A Soulcaster. The dark figure glanced at Szeth. Indeed. Our master directs that you are to use tactics similar to those you employed so well in Alethkar years ago. When you are done, you will receive further instructions. He then exited through the opening, leaving Szeth horrified. This was his nightmare. To be in the hands of those who understood his capabilities and who had the ambition to use them properly. He stood for a time, silent, long past when his Stormlight ran out.