the broken wall. He burst out into violet moonlight. He was in a small laita wide rift in the stone with good enough drainage to avoid flooding and a high stone outcropping to break the highstorms. In this case, the eastern rock formation was shaped like an enormous wave, creating shelter for a small village. That explained the flimsiness of the barn. Lights flickered here and there across the hollow, indicating a settlement of several dozen homes. He was on the outskirts. There was a hogpen to Dalinars right, distant homes to his left, and just aheadnestled against the rock hillwas a midsized farm house. It was built in an archaic style, with crem bricks for walls. His decision was easy. The thing had moved quickly, like a predator. Dalinar wouldnt outrun it, so he charged toward the farm house. The sound of the beast breaking out through the barn wall came from behind. Dalinar reached the home, but the front door was barred. Dalinar cursed loudly, pounding on it. Claws scraped on stone from behind as the thing bounded toward them. Dalinar threw his shoulder against the door just as it opened. He stumbled inside, dropping the girl to the floor as he found his balance. A middle-aged woman stood inside; violet moonlight revealed that she had thick curly hair and a wide-eyed terrified expression. She slammed the door closed behind him, then barred it. Praise the Heralds, she exclaimed, scooping up the girl. You found her, Heb. Bless you. Dalinar sidled up to the glassless window, looking out. The shutter appeared to be broken loose, making the window impossible to latch closed. He couldnt see the creature. He glanced back over his shoulder. The buildings floor was simple stone and there was no second story. A fireless brick hearth was set on one side, with a rough-cast iron pot hanging above it. It all looked so primitive. What year was this? Its just a vision, he thought. A waking dream. Why did it feel so real, then? He looked back out the window. It was silent outside. A twin row of rockbuds grew on the right side of the yard, probably curnips or some other kind of vegetable. Moonlight reflected off the smooth ground. Where was the creature? Had it Something slick-skinned and black leapt up from below and crashed against the window. It shattered the frame, and Dalinar cursed, falling as the thing landed on him. Something sharp slashed his face, cutting open his cheek, spilling blood across his skin. The girl screamed again.