the mind and the stomach. So nice of you to give a poignant object lesson to accompany your brilliant metaphor. Do you treat all of your customers this way? BrightnessI believe you stray into sarcasm. Funny. I thought Id run straight into it, screaming at the top of my lungs. He blushed and stood. Ill go help my wife. He hurriedly withdrew. She sat back, and realized she was annoyed at herself for letting her frustration boil out. It was just what her nurses had warned her about. A young woman had to mind her words. Her fathers intemperate tongue had earned their house a regrettable reputation; would she add to it? She calmed herself, enjoying the warmth and watching the dancing flamespren until the merchant and his wife returned, bearing several stacks of books. The merchant took his seat again, and his wife pulled over a stool, setting the tomes on the floor and then showing them one at a time as her husband spoke. For history, we have two choices, the merchant said, condescensionand friendlinessgone.  Times and Passage, by Rencalt, is a single volume survey of Rosharan history since the Hierocracy. His wife held up a red, cloth-bound volume. I told my wife that you would likely be insulted by such a shallow option, but she insisted. Thank you, Shallan said. I am not insulted, but I do require something more detailed. Then perhaps Eternathis will serve you, he said as his wife held up a blue- grey set of four volumes. It is a philosophical work which examines the same time period by focusing only on the interactions of the five Vorin kingdoms. As you can see, the treatment is exhaustive. The four volumes were thick. The five Vorin kingdoms? Shed thought there were four. Jah Keved, Alethkar, Kharbranth, and Natanatan. United by religion, they had been strong allies during the years following the Recreance. What was the fifth kingdom? The volumes intrigued her. I will take them. Excellent, the merchant said, a bit of the gleam returning to his eye. Of the philosophical works you listed, we didnt have anything by Yustara. We have one each of works by Placini and Manaline; both are collections of excerpts from their most famous writings. Ive had the Placini book read to me; its quite good. Shallan nodded. As for Gabrathin, he said, we have four different volumes. My, but he was a prolific one! Oh, and we have a single book by Shauka-daughter-