Three still glowed. Numb, Szeth breathed in sharply, absorbing the Light. The storm began to rage again. More Light rose from the side of his face, repairing his damaged skin and bones. The pain was still great; Stormlight healing was far from instantaneous. It would be hours before he recovered. The king coughed. You can tellThaidakarthat hes too late. I dont know who that is, Szeth said, standing, his words slurring from his broken jaw. He held his hand to the side, resummoning his Shardblade. The king frowned. Then who? Restares? Sadeas? I never thought My masters are the Parshendi, Szeth said. Ten heartbeats passed, and his Blade dropped into his hand, wet with condensation. The Parshendi? That makes no sense. Gavilar coughed, hand quivering, reaching toward his chest and fumbling at a pocket. He pulled out a small crystalline sphere tied to a chain. You must take this. They must not get it. He seemed dazed. Telltell my brotherhe must find the most important words a man can say. Gavilar fell still. Szeth hesitated, then knelt down and took the sphere. It was odd, unlike any hed seen before. Though it was completely dark, it seemed to glow somehow. With a light that was black. The Parshendi? Gavilar had said. That makes no sense. Nothing makes sense anymore, Szeth whispered, tucking the strange sphere away. Its all unraveling. I am sorry, King of the Alethi. I doubt that you care. Not anymore, at least. He stood up. At least you wont have to watch the world ending with the rest of us. Beside the kings body, his Shardblade materialized from mist, clattering to the stones now that its master was dead. It was worth a fortune; kingdoms had fallen as men vied to possess a single Shardblade. Shouts of alarm came from inside the palace. Szeth needed to go. But Tell my brother To Szeths people, a dying request was sacred. He took the kings hand, dipping it in the mans own blood, then used it to scrawl on the wood, Brother. You must find the most important words a man can say. With that, Szeth escaped into the night. He left the kings Shardblade; he had no use for it. The Blade Szeth already carried was curse enough.