and burned by the food they eat. They have no taste, and And what? Kaladin asked. Chull dung, Rock said. It apparently has stronger taste than I assumed. Wait, Teft said. You put chull dung in Highprince Sadeass soup? Er, yes, Rock said. Actually, I put this thing in his bread too. And used it as a garnish on the pork steak. And made a chutney out of it for the buttered garams. Chull dung, it has many uses, I found. Teft laughed, his voice echoing. He fell on his side, so amused that Kaladin was afraid hed roll right into the chasm. Horneater, Teft finally said, I owe you a drink. Rock smiled. Kaladin shook his head to himself, amazed. It suddenly made sense. What? Rock said, apparently noticing his expression. This is what we need, Kaladin said.  This! Its the thing Ive been missing. Rock hesitated. Chull dung? This is the thing you need? Teft burst into another round of laugher. No, Kaladin said. Itswell, Ill show you. But first we need this knobweed sap. Theyd barely made their way through one of the bundles, and already his fingers were aching from the milking. What of you, Kaladin? Rock asked. I have been telling you my story. You will tell me yours? How did you come to those marks on your forehead? Yeah, Teft said, wiping his eyes. Whose food did you trat in? I thought you said it was taboo to ask about a bridgemans past, Kaladin said. You made Rock share, son, Teft said. Its only fair. So if I tell my story, that means youll tell yours? Teft scowled immediately. Now look, I aint going to I killed a man, Kaladin said. That quieted Teft. Rock perked up. Syl, Kaladin noticed, was still watching with interest. That was odd for her; normally, her attention wavered quickly. You killed a man? Rock said. And after this thing, they made you a slave? Is not the punishment for murder usually death? It wasnt murder, Kaladin said softly, thinking of the scraggly bearded man in the slave wagon who had asked him these same questions. In fact, I was thanked for it by someone very important. He fell silent. And? Teft finally asked. And Kaladin said, looking down at a reed. Nomon was setting in the