How? I dont know. She grew paler. I dont want to talk about it. But it was right to do. I feel it. Kaladin hung for a moment longer. Teft called down, asking if something was wrong. He started to descend again. I didnt fight the soldiers today, Kaladin said, eyes toward the chasm wall, because it wouldnt work. My father told me that it is impossible to protect by killing. Well, he was wrong. But He was wrong, Kaladin said, because he implied that you could protect people in other ways. You cant. This world wants them dead, and trying to save them is pointless. He reached the bottom of the chasm, stepping into darkness. Teft reached the bottom next and lit his torch, bathing the moss-covered stone walls in flickering orange light. Is that why you didnt accept it? Syl whispered, flitting over and landing on Kaladins shoulder. The glory. All those months ago? Kaladin shook his head. No. That was something else. What did you say, Kaladin? Teft raised the torch. The aging bridgemans face looked older than usual in the flickering light, the shadows it created emphasizing the furrows in his skin. Nothing, Teft, Kaladin said. Nothing important. Syl sniffed at that. Kaladin ignored her, lighting his torch from Tefts as the other bridgemen arrived. When they were all down, Kaladin led the way out into the dark rift. The pale sky seemed distant here, like a far-off scream. This place was a tomb, with rotting wood and stagnant pools of water, good only for growing cremling larvae. The bridgemen clustered together unconsciously as they always did in this fell place. Kaladin walked in front, and Syl fell silent. He gave Teft the chalk to mark directions, and didnt pause to pick up salvage. But neither did he walk too quickly. The other bridgemen were hushed behind them, speaking in occasional whispers too low to echo. As if their words were strangled by the gloom. Rock eventually moved up to walk beside Kaladin. Is difficult job, we have been given. But we are bridgemen! Life, it is difficult, eh? Is nothing new. We must have plan. How do we fight next? There is no next fight, Rock. But we have won grand victory! Look, not days ago, you were delirious. You should have died. I know this thing. But instead, you walk, strong as any other man. Ha! Stronger. Is miracle. The Ulitekanaki guide you. Its not a miracle, Rock, Kaladin said. Its more of a curse.