earlier. Dallet grabbed Cenn and shoved him to the very center of the formation. Kaladins men lowered spears, pulling out shields as the enemy bore down on them. The charging foe used no careful formation; they didnt keep the ranks of longspears in back and shortspears in front. They all just ran forward, yelling in a frenzy. Cenn scrambled to get his shield unlatched from his back. Clashing spears rang in the air as squads engaged one another. A group of enemy spearmen rushed up to Kaladins squad, perhaps coveting the higher ground. The three dozen attackers had some cohesion, though they werent in as tight a formation as Kaladins squad was. The enemy seemed determined to make up for it in passion; they bellowed and screamed in fury, rushing Kaladins line. Kaladins team held rank, defending Cenn as if he were some lighteyes and they were his honor guard. The two forces met with a crash of metal on wood, shields slamming together. Cenn cringed back. It was over in a few eyeblinks. The enemy squad pulled back, leaving two dead on the stone. Kaladins team hadnt lost anyone. They held their bristling V formation, though one man stepped back and pulled out a bandage to wrap a thigh wound. The rest of the men closed in to fill the spot. The wounded man was hulking and thick-armed; he cursed, but the wound didnt look bad. He was on his feet in a moment, but didnt return to the place where hed been. Instead, he moved down to one end of the V formation, a more protected spot. The battlefield was chaos. The two armies mingled indistinguishably; sounds of clanging, crunching, and screaming churned in the air. Many of the squads broke apart, members rushing from one encounter to another. They moved like hunters, groups of three or four seeking lone individuals, then brutally falling on them. Kaladins team held its ground, engaging only enemy squads that got too close. Was this what a battle really was? Cenns practice had trained him for long ranks of men, shoulder to shoulder. Not this frenzied intermixing, this brutal pandemonium. Why didnt more hold formation? The real soldiers are all gone, Cenn thought. Off fighting in a real battle at the Shattered Plains. No wonder Kaladin wants to get his squad there. Spears flashed on all sides; it was difficult to tell friend from foe, despite the emblems on breastplates and colored paint on shields. The battlefield broke down into hundreds of small groups, like a thousand different wars happening at the same time. After the first few exchanges, Dallet took Cenn by the shoulder and placed