the ardent wore thick, blue-grey layered robes from which his hands barely extended. The effect was of a crab who was too small for his shell. It looked terribly hot, but he didnt seem to mind. Send a messenger to the Fifth Battalion, Dalinar told him. Well be visiting them next. Yes, Brightlord. Adolin and Dalinar began to walk. Theyd chosen to wear their Shardplate for this days inspections. That wasnt uncommon; many Shardbearers found any excuse they could to wear Plate. Plus, it was good for the men to see their highprince and his heir in their strength. They drew attention as they left the staging area and entered the warcamp proper. Like Adolin, Dalinar went about unhelmed, though the gorget of his armor was tall and thick, rising like a metal collar up to his chin. He nodded to soldiers who saluted. Adolin, Dalinar said. In combat, do you feel the Thrill? Adolin started. He knew immediately what his father meant, but he was shocked to hear the words. This wasnt often discussed. IWell, of course. Who doesnt? Dalinar didnt reply. He had been so reserved lately. Was that pain in his eyes? The way he was before, Adolin thought, deluded but confident. That was actually better. Dalinar said nothing more, and the two of them continued through the camp. Six years had let the soldiers settle in thoroughly. Barracks were painted with company and squad symbols, and the space between them was outfitted with firepits, stools, and canvas-shaded dining areas. Adolins father had forbidden none of this, though he had set guidelines to discourage sloppiness. Dalinar had also approved most requests for families to be brought to the Shattered Plains. The officers already had their wives, of coursea good lighteyes officer was really a team, the man to command and fight, the woman to read, write, engineer, and manage camp. Adolin smiled, thinking of Malasha. Would she prove to be the one for him? Shed been a little cold to him lately. Of course, there was Danlan. Hed only just met her, but he was intrigued. Regardless, Dalinar had also approved requests by darkeyed common soldiers to bring their families. He even paid half of the cost. When Adolin had asked why, Dalinar had replied that he didnt feel right forbidding them. The warcamps were never attacked anymore, so there was no danger. Adolin suspected his father felt that since he was living in a luxurious near-palace, his men might as well have the comfort of their families. And so it was that children played and ran through the camp. Women hung