sketch. I suppose that she must! the king said. Ive seen the drawing she did for Varas. Varas? Jasnah asked. The Palanaeums assistant chief of collections, the king said. A distant cousin of mine. He says the staff is quite taken with your young ward. How did you find her? Unexpectedly, Jasnah said, and in need of an education. The king cocked his head. The artistic skill, I cannot claim, Jasnah said. It was a preexisting condition. Ah, a blessing of the Almighty. You might say that. But you would not, I assume? Taravangian chuckled awkwardly. Shallan drew quickly, establishing the shape of his head. He shuffled uncomfortably. Is it hard for you, Jasnah? Painful, I mean? Atheism is not a disease, Your Majesty, Jasnah said dryly. Its not as if Ive caught a foot rash. Of course not, of course not. Buter, isnt it difficult, having nothing in which to believe? Shallan leaned forward, still sketching, but keeping her attention on the conversation. Shallan had assumed that training under a heretic would be a little more exciting. She and Kabsalthe witty ardent whom shed met on her first day in Kharbranthhad chatted several times now about Jasnahs faith. However, around Jasnah herself, the topic almost never came up. When it did, Jasnah usually changed it. Today, however, she did not. Perhaps she sensed the sincerity in the kings question. I wouldnt say that I have nothing to believe in, Your Majesty. Actually, I have much to believe in. My brother and my uncle, my own abilities. The things I was taught by my parents. But, what is right and wrong, youveWell, youve discarded that. Just because I do not accept the teachings of the devotaries does not mean Ive discarded a belief in right and wrong. But the Almighty determines what is right! Must someone, some unseen thing , declare what is right for it to be right? I believe that my own moralitywhich answers only to my heartis more sure and true than the morality of those who do right only because they fear retribution. But that is the soul of law, the king said, sounding confused. If there is no