The newcomer cringed away, raising his hands. He had a rash on one hand, the skin just faintly discolored. Hed likely approached because hed seen Kaladin respond to that other man. The slaves had been frightened of him since the first day, but they were also obviously curious. Kaladin sighed and turned away. The slave hesitantly sat down. Mind if I ask how you became a slave, friend? Cant help wondering. Were all wondering. Judging by the accent and the dark hair, the man was Alethi, like Kaladin. Most of the slaves were. Kaladin didnt reply to the question. Me, I stole a herd of chull, the man said. He had a raspy voice, like sheets of paper rubbing together. If Id taken one chull, they might have just beaten me. But a whole herd. Seventeen head He chuckled to himself, admiring his own audacity. In the far corner of the wagon, someone coughed again. They were a sorry lot, even for slaves. Weak, sickly, underfed. Some, like Kaladin, were repeat runawaysthough Kaladin was the only one with a shash brand. They were the most worthless of a worthless caste, purchased at a steep discount. They were probably being taken for resale in a remote place where men were desperate for labor. There were plenty of small, independent cities along the coast of the Unclaimed Hills, places where Vorin rules governing the use of slaves were just a distant rumor. Coming this way was dangerous. These lands were ruled by nobody, and by cutting across open land and staying away from established trade routes, Tvlakv could easily run afoul of unemployed mercenaries. Men who had no honor and no fear of slaughtering a slavemaster and his slaves in order to steal a few chulls and wagons. Men who had no honor. Were there men who had honor? No, Kaladin thought. Honor died eight months ago . So? asked the scraggly-bearded man. What did you do to get made a slave? Kaladin raised his arm against the bars again. How did you get caught? Odd thing, that, the man said. Kaladin hadnt answered his question, but he had replied. That seemed enough. It was a woman, of course. Should have known shed sell me. Shouldnt have stolen chulls. Too slow. Horses would have been better. The man laughed riotously. Horses? What do you think me, a madman? If Id been caught stealing those, Id have been hanged. Chulls, at least, only earned me a slaves brand. Kaladin glanced to the side. This mans forehead brand was older than