Dalinar found King Elhokar in his palace sitting room. Dalinar nodded once more to the guards outside, then closed the door. They seemed troubled. As well they should; his orders had been irregular. But they would do as told. They wore the kings colors, blue and gold, but they were Dalinars men, chosen specifically for their loyalty. The door shut with a snap. The king was staring at one of his maps, wearing his Shardplate. Ah, Uncle, he said, turning to Dalinar. Good. I had wanted to speak with you. Do you know of these rumors about you and my mother? I realize that nothing untoward could be happening, but I do worry about what people think. Dalinar crossed the room, booted feet thumping on the rich rug. Infused diamonds hung in the corners of the room, and the carved walls had been set with tiny chips of quartz to sparkle and reflect the light. Honestly, Uncle, Elhokar said, shaking his head. Im growing very intolerant of your reputation in camp. What they are saying reflects poorly on me, you see, and He trailed off as Dalinar stopped about a pace from him. Uncle? Is everything all right? My door guards reported some kind of mishap with your plateau assault today, but my mind was full of thoughts. Did I miss anything vital? Yes, Dalinar said. Then he raised his leg and kicked the king in the chest. The strength of the blow tossed the king backward against his desk. The fine wood shattered as the heavy Shardbearer crashed through it. Elhokar hit the floor, his breastplate cracked just faintly. Dalinar stepped up to him, then delivered another kick to the kings side, cracking the breastplate again. Elhokar began shouting in panic. Guards! To me! Guards! Nobody came. Dalinar kicked again, and Elhokar cursed, catching his boot. Dalinar grunted, but bent down and grabbed Elhokar by the arm, then yanked him to his feet, tossing him toward the side of the room. The king stumbled on the rug, crashing through a chair. Round lengths of wood scattered, splinters spraying out. Wide-eyed, Elhokar scrambled to his feet. Dalinar advanced on him. What has gone wrong with you, Uncle? Elhokar yelled. Youre mad! Guards! Assassin in the kings chamber! Guards! Elhokar tried to run for the door, but Dalinar threw his shoulder against the king, tossing the younger man to the ground again. Elhokar rolled, but got a hand under himself and climbed to his knees, the other hand to the side. A puff of mist appeared in it as he summoned his Blade. Dalinar kicked the kings hand just as the Shardblade dropped into it. The blow knocked the Blade free, and it dissolved back to mist immediately.