A part of me wishes for that to happen, Dalinar said, watching the door swing closed after Renarin. I fear madness, but at least it is something familiar, something that can be dealt with. I will give you the princedom, then seek help in Kharbranth. But if these things are not delusions, I face another decision. Do I accept what they tell me or not? It may very well be better for Alethkar if I prove to be mad. It will be easier, at the least. Adolin considered that, his brow furrowed, his jaw tense. And Sadeas? He seems to be nearing the completion of his investigation. What do we do? It was a legitimate question. Troubles over Dalinar trusting the visions in relation to Sadeas had been what had drawn Dalinar and Adolin to argument in the first place. Unite them. That wasnt just a command from the visions. It had been Gavilars dream. A unified Alethkar. Had Dalinar let that dreamcombined with guilt over failing his brotherdrive him to construct supernatural rationalizations for seeking his brothers will? He felt uncertain. He hated feeling uncertain. Very well, Dalinar said. I give you leave to prepare for the worst, just in case Sadeas moves against us. Prepare our officers and call back the companies sent to patrol for bandits. If Sadeas denounces me as having tried to kill Elhokar, we will lock down our warcamp and go on alert. I dont intend to let him bring me in for execution. Adolin looked relieved. Thank you, Father. Hope it doesnt come to that, son, Dalinar said. The moment Sadeas and I go to war in earnest, Alethkar as a nation will shatter. Ours are the two princedoms that uphold the king, and if we turn to strife, the others will either pick sides or turn to wars of their own. Adolin nodded, but Dalinar sat back, disturbed. Im sorry, he thought to whatever force was sending the visions. But I have to be wise. In a way, this seemed like a second test to him. The visions had told him to trust Sadeas. Well, he would see what happened. and then it faded, Dalinar said. After that, I found myself back here. Navani raised her pen, looking thoughtful. It hadnt taken him long to talk through the vision. Shed scribed expertly, picking out details from him, knowing when to prod for more. She hadnt said a thing about the irregularity of the request, nor had she seemed amused by his desire to write down one of his