from Damnation, toying with him like a windspren, but infinitely more nefarious? Letting him think that he might be able to do some good, then killing everyone he tried to help? There were supposed to be thousands of kinds of spren, many that people never saw or didnt know about. Syl followed him. Could some kind of evil spren be doing the same? A very disturbing thought. Superstition is useless, he told himself forcefully. Think on it too much, and youll end up like Durk, insisting that you need to wear your lucky boots into every battle. They reached a section where the chasm forked, splitting around a plateau high above. Kaladin turned to face the bridgemen. This is as good a place as any. The bridgemen stopped, bunching up. He could see the anticipation in their eyes, the excitement. Hed felt that once, back before hed known the soreness and the pain of practice. Oddly, Kaladin felt he was now both more in awe of and more disappointed in the spear than hed been as a youth. He loved the focus, the feeling of certainty that he felt when he fought. But that hadnt saved those who followed him. This is where Im supposed to tell you what a sorry group you are, Kaladin said to the men. Its the way Ive always seen it done. The training sergeant tells the recruits that they are pathetic. He points out their weakness, perhaps spars with a few of them, tossing them on their backsides to teach them humility. I did that a few times myself when training new spearmen. Kaladin shook his head. Today, thats not how well begin. You men dont need humbling. You dont dream of glory. You dream of survival. Most of all, you arent the sad, unprepared group of recruits most sergeants have to deal with. Youre tough. Ive seen you run for miles carrying a bridge. Youre brave. Ive seen you charge straight at a line of archers. Youre determined. Otherwise you wouldnt be here, right now, with me. Kaladin walked to the side of the chasm and extracted a discarded spear from some flood-strewn rubble. Once he had it, however, he realized that the spearhead had been knocked off. He almost tossed it aside, then reconsidered. Spears were dangerous for him to hold. They made him want to fight, and might lead him to think he was who hed once been: Kaladin Stormblessed, confident squadleader. He wasnt that man any longer. It seemed that whenever he picked up weapons, the people around him died friends as well as foes. So, for now, it seemed good to hold this length of wood; it was just a staff. Nothing more. A stick he could use for training. He could face returning to the spear another time.