Kal hesitated. Shes ignorant. And she likes to gossip about things she doesnt know anything about. Well, then. If you wish to emulate her, I can obviously find no objection to the practice. Kal grimaced. You had to watch yourself when speaking with Hesina; she liked to twist words about. He leaned back against the wall of the town hall, watching his breath puff out in front of him. Perhaps a different tactic would work. Mother, why do people hate Father? They dont hate him, she said. However, his calmly asked question got her to continue. But he does make them uncomfortable. Why? Because some people are frightened of knowledge. Your father is a learned man; he knows things the others cant understand. So those things must be dark and mysterious. They arent afraid of luckmerches and glyphwards. Those you can understand, his mother said calmly. You burn a glyphward out in front of your house, and it will turn away evil. Its easy. Your father wont give someone a ward to heal them. Hell insist that they stay in bed, drinking water, taking some foul medicine, and washing their wound each day. Its hard. Theyd rather leave it all to fate. Kal considered that. I think they hate him because he fails too often. There is that. If a glyphward fails, you can blame it on the will of the Almighty. If your father fails, then its his fault. Or such is the perception. His mother continued working, flakes of stone falling to the ground around her. Theyll never actually hate your fatherhes too useful. But hell never really be one of them. Thats the price of being a surgeon. Having power over the lives of men is an uncomfortable responsibility. And if I dont want that responsibility? What if I just want to be something normal, like a baker, or a farmer, or Or a soldier, he added in his mind. Hed picked up a staff a few times in secret, and though hed never been able to replicate that moment when hed fought Jost, there was something invigorating about holding a weapon. Something that drew him and excited him. I think, his mother said, that youll find the lives of bakers and farmers are not so enviable. At least they have friends. And so do you. What of Tien? Tiens not my friend, Mother. Hes my brother. Oh, and he cant be both at once? Kal rolled his eyes. You know what I mean.