focus. The apprentice carpenter hed spoken to brought a supervisor over. That supervisor scratched his head beneath his cap, watching Kaladin. Finally, he shrugged, and the two of them withdrew. Before long, he drew a small crowd. Workers in the lumberyard, some soldiers, and a large number of bridgemen. Some from the other bridge crews called gibes, but the members of Bridge Four were more withdrawn. Many ignored him. Othersgrizzled Teft, youthful-faced Dunny, several morestood watching in a line, as if they couldnt believe what he was doing. Those staresstunned and hostile though they werewere part of what kept Kaladin going. He also ran to work out his frustration, that boiling, churning pot of anger within. Anger at himself for failing Tien. Anger at the Almighty for creating a world where some dined in luxury while others died carrying bridges. It felt surprisingly good to wear himself down in a way he chose. He felt as he had those first few months after Tiens death, training himself on the spear to forget. When the noon bells rangcalling the soldiers to lunchKaladin finally stopped and set the large plank down on the ground. He rolled his shoulder. Hed been running for hours. Where had he found the strength? He jogged over to the carpenters station, dripping sweat to the stones, and took a long drink from the water barrel. The carpenters usually chased off bridgemen who tried that, but none said a word as Kaladin slurped down two full ladles of metallic rainwater. He shook the ladle free and nodded to a pair of apprentices, then jogged back to where hed left the plank. Rockthe large, tan-skinned Horneaterwas hefting it, frowning. Teft noticed Kaladin, then nodded to Rock. He bet a few of us a chip each that youd used a lightweight board to impress us. If they could have felt his exhaustion, they wouldnt have been so skeptical. He forced himself to take the plank from Rock. The large man let it go with a bewildered look, watching as Kaladin ran the plank back to where hed found it. He waved his thanks to the apprentice, then trotted back to the small cluster of bridgemen. Rock was reluctantly paying out chips on his bet. Youre dismissed for lunch, Kaladin told them. We have afternoon bridge duty, so be back here in an hour. Assemble at the mess hall at last bell before sundown. Our camp chore today is cleaning up after supper. Last one to arrive has to do the pots. They gave him bemused expressions as he trotted away from the lumberyard. Two streets away, he ducked into an alleyway and leaned against the wall. Then, wheezing, he sank to the ground and stretched out. He felt as if hed strained every muscle in his body. His legs burned, and when he tried to make his hand into a fist, the fingers were too weak to fully