beard, cut short. He was a lighteyes of very low rank, and had been with the guard for years. He says that Highprince Thanadal will be unable to meet with you today as planned. Dalinars expression grew dark. I will speak to the runner myself. Reluctantly, Niter waved the spindly fellow forward. He approached and dropped to one knee before Dalinar. Brightlord. This time, Dalinar didnt ask for Adolin to take the lead. Deliver your message. Brightlord Thanadal regrets that he is unable to attend you this day. And did he offer another time to meet? He regrets to say that he has grown too busy. But he would be happy to speak with you at the kings feast one evening. In public, Adolin thought, where half the men nearby will be eavesdropping while the other halflikely including Thanadal himselfwill probably be drunk. I see, Dalinar said. And did he give any indication of when hed no longer be so busy? Brightlord, the messenger said, growing uncomfortable. He said that if you pressed, I should explain that he has spoken with several of the other highprinces, and feels he knows the nature of your inquiry. He said to tell you he does not wish to form an alliance, nor does he have any intention of going on a joint plateau assault with you. Dalinars expression grew darker. He dismissed the messenger with a wave, then turned to Adolin. The Cobalt Guard still kept a space open around them so they could talk. Thanadal was the last of them, Dalinar said. Each highprince had turned him down in his own way. Hatham with exceeding politeness, Bethab by letting his wife give the explanation, Thanadal with hostile civility. All of them but Sadeas, at least. I doubt it would be wise to approach him with this, Father. Youre probably right. Dalinars voice was cold. He was angry. Furious, even. Theyre sending me a message. Theyve never liked the influence I have over the king, and theyre eager to see me fall. They dont want to do something I ask them to, just in case it might help me regain my footing. Father, Im sorry. Perhaps its for the best. The important point is that I have failed. I cant get them to work together. Elhokar was right. He looked to Adolin. I would like you to continue inspections for me, son. Theres something I want to do. What? Just some work I see needs to be done.