So perhaps that is why he held himself back. I dont know, Toral said. He could have cast shame on your family without attacking youhe could have implied, for instance, that youd been negligent and foolish in not protecting the king, but that you hadnt been behind the assassination attempt. Adolin nodded. That still could have started a war, Danlan said. Perhaps, Toral said. But you have to admit, Adolin, that the Blackthorns reputation is a little less than impressive of late. And what does that mean? Adolin snapped. Oh, Adolin, Toral said waving a hand and raising his cup for some more wine. Dont be tiresome. You know what Im saying, and you also know I mean no insult by it. Where is that serving woman? One would think, Jakamav added, that after six years out here, we could get a decent winehouse. Inkima laughed at that too. She was really getting annoying. My fathers reputation is sound, Adolin said. Or have you not been paying attention to our victories lately? Achieved with Sadeass help, Jakamav said. Achieved nonetheless, Adolin said. In the last few months, my fathers saved not only Sadeass life, but that of the king himself. He fights boldly. Surely you can see that previous rumors about him were absolutely unfounded. All right, all right, Toral said. No need to get upset, Adolin. We can all agree that your father is a wonderful man. But you were the one who complained to us that you wanted to change him. Adolin studied his wine. Both of the other men at the table wore the sort of outfits Adolins father frowned upon. Short jackets over colorful silk shirts. Toral wore a thin yellow silk scarf at the neck and another around his right wrist. It was quite fashionable, and looked far more comfortable than Adolins uniform. Dalinar would have said that the outfits looked silly, but sometimes fashion was silly. Bold, different. There was something invigorating about dressing in a way that interested others, moving with the waves of style. Once, before joining his father at the war, Adolin had loved being able to design a look to match a given day. Now he had only two options: summer uniform coat or winter uniform coat. The serving maid finally arrived, bringing two carafes of wine, one yellow and one deep blue. Inkima giggled as Jakamav leaned over and whispered something in her ear. Adolin held up a hand to forestall the maid from filling his cup. Im not