point toward the sky, arms all the way extended. Adolin used Windstance, turned sideways slightly, hands before him and elbows bent, Shardblade pointing back over his head. They circled. The winner would be the first one who completely shattered a section of the others Plate. That wasnt too dangerous; weakened Plate could usually still rebuff a blow, even if it shattered in the process. Resi attacked first, taking a hopping leap forward and striking by whipping his Shardblade back over his head, then down to his right in a powerful blow. Stonestance focused on that type of attack, delivering the most possible momentum and strength behind each strike. Dalinar found it unwieldyyou didnt need that much power behind a Shardblade on the battlefield, though it was helpful against other Shardbearers. Adolin jumped back out of the way, Shardplate-enhanced legs giving him a nimbleness that defied the fact that he was wearing over a hundred stoneweights of thick armor. Resis attackthough well-executedleft him open, and Adolin made a careful strike at his opponents left vambrace, cracking the forearm plate. Resi attacked again, and Adolin again danced out of the way, then scored a hit on his opponents left thigh. Some poets described combat as a dance. Dalinar rarely felt that way about regular combat. Two men fighting with sword and shield would go at one another in a furious rush, slamming their weapons down again and again, tying to get around their opponents shield. Less a dance, and more like wrestling with weapons. Fighting with Shardblades, though, that could be like a dance. The large weapons took a great deal of skill to swing properly, and Plate was resilient, so exchanges were generally drawn out. The fights were filled with grand motions, wide sweeps. There was a fluidity to fighting with a Shardblade. A grace. Hes quite good, you know, Elhokar said. Adolin made a hit on Resis helm, prompting a round of applause from those watching. Better than my father was. Better than even you, Uncle. He works very hard, Dalinar said. He truly loves it. Not the war, not the fighting. The dueling. He could be champion, if he wished it. Adolin did wish it, Dalinar knew. But he had refused bouts that would put him within reach of the title. Dalinar suspected that Adolin did it to hold, somewhat, to the Codes. Dueling championships and tournaments were things for those rare times between wars. It could be argued that protecting ones family honor, however, was for all times. Either way, Adolin didnt duel for ranking, and that made other Shardbearers