warping in the air, like a strip of cloth caught in the windand darted beneath the wagon. Storm you! Kaladin said, leaping to his feet. Spirit! What did you say? Repeat that! Spren didnt use peoples names. Spren werent intelligent. The larger oneslike windspren or riversprencould mimic voices and expressions, but they didnt actually think. They didnt Did any of you hear that? Kaladin asked, turning to the cages other occupants. The roof was just high enough to let Kaladin stand. The others were lying back, waiting to get their ladle of water. He got no response beyond a few mutters to be quiet and some coughs from the sick man in the corner. Even Kaladins friend from earlier ignored him. The man had fallen into a stupor, staring at his feet, wiggling his toes periodically. Maybe they hadnt seen the spren. Many of the larger ones were invisible except to the person they were tormenting. Kaladin sat back down to floor of the wagon, hanging his legs outside. The windspren had said his name, but undoubtedly shed just repeated what shed heard before. Butnone of the men in the cage knew his name. Maybe Im going mad, Kaladin thought. Seeing things that arent there. Hearing voices. He took a deep breath, then opened his hand. His grip had cracked and broken the leaves. Hed need to tuck them away to prevent further Those leaves look interesting, said that same feminine voice. You like them a lot, dont you? Kaladin jumped, twisting to the side. The windspren stood in the air just beside his head, white dress rippling in a wind Kaladin couldnt feel. How do you know my name? he demanded. The windspren didnt answer. She walked on air over to the bars, then poked her head out, watching Tvlakv the slaver administer drinks to the last few slaves in the first wagon. She looked back at Kaladin. Why dont you fight? You did before. Now youve stopped. Why do you care, spirit? She cocked her head. I dont know, she said, as if surprised at herself. But I do. Isnt that odd? It was more than odd. What did he make of a spren that not only used his name, but seemed to remember things he had done weeks ago? People dont eat leaves, you know, Kaladin, she said, folding translucent arms. Then she cocked her head. Or do you? I cant remember. Youre so strange, stuffing some things into your mouths, leaking out other things when you dont think anyone is looking.