should come before theology. But especially introductions. All right, Kaladin said. And you are? Sitting. Occasionally playing with the minds of bridgemen. Kaladin reddened, turning again to go. Let the fool lighteyes say, and do, what he wished. Kaladin had difficult decisions to think about. Well, off with you then, the lighteyes said from behind. Glad you are going. Wouldnt want you too close. Im rather attached to my Stormlight. Kaladin froze. Then he spun. What? My spheres, the strange man said, holding up what appeared to be a fully infused emerald broam. Everyone knows that bridgemen are thieves, or at least beggars. Of course. He had been talking about spheres. He didnt know about Kaladins affliction. Did he? The mans eyes twinkled as if at a grand joke. Dont be insulted at being called a thief, the man said, raising a finger. Kaladin frowned. Where had the sphere gone? He had been holding it in that hand. I meant it as a compliment. A compliment? Calling someone a thief? Of course. I myself am a thief. You are? What do you steal? Pride, the man said, leaning forward. And occasionally boredom, if I may take the pride unto myself. I am the Kings Wit. Or I was until recently. I think I shall probably lose the title soon. The kings what? Wit. It was my job to be witty. Saying confusing things isnt the same as being witty. Ah, the man said, eyes twinkling. Already you prove yourself more wise than most who have been my acquaintance lately. What is it to be witty, then? To say clever things. And what is cleverness? I Why was he having this conversation? I guess its the ability to say and do the right things at the right time. The Kings Wit cocked his head, then smiled. Finally, he held out his hand to Kaladin. And what is your name, my thoughtful bridgeman? Kaladin hesitantly raised his own hand. Kaladin. And yours? Ive many. The man shook Kaladins hand. I began life as a thought, a concept, words on a page. That was another thing I stole. Myself. Another time, I was named for a rock. A pretty one, I hope. A beautiful one, the man said. And one that became completely worthless