No, no assassins yet, Wit said, amused. I guess Ive already got too much ass sass of my own. Dalinar turned with shock. Navani, the kings mother, was a stately woman with intricately woven black hair. And she was not supposed to be here. Oh really, Wit, she said. I thought that kind of humor was beneath you. So are you, technically, Wit said, smiling, from atop his high-legged stool. She rolled her eyes. Unfortunately, Brightness, Wit replied with a sigh, Ive taken to framing my insults in terms this lot will understand. If it will please you, I shall attempt to improve my diction to more elevated terms. He paused. I say, do you know any words that rhyme with bescumber? Navani just turned her head and looked at Dalinar with a pair of light violet eyes. She wore an elegant dress, its shimmering red surface unbroken by embroidery. The gems in her hairwhich was streaked with a few lines of grey were red as well. The kings mother was known as one of the most beautiful women in Alethkar, though Dalinar had always found that description inadequate, for surely there wasnt a woman on all of Roshar to match her beauty. Fool, he thought, tearing his eyes away from her. Your brothers widow. With Gavilar dead, Navani was now to be treated as Dalinars sister. Besides, what of his own wife? Dead these ten years, wiped by his foolishness from his mind. Even if he couldnt remember her, he should honor her. Why had Navani returned? As women called out greetings to her, Dalinar hurriedly made his way over to the kings table. He sat down; a servant arrived in moments with a plate for himthey knew his preferences. It was steaming peppered chicken, cut in medallions and laid atop fried round slices of tenem, a soft, light orange vegetable. Dalinar grabbed a piece of flatbread and slipped his dining knife from the sheath on his right calf. So long as he was eating, it would be a breach of etiquette for Navani to approach him. The food was good. It always was at these feasts of Elhokarsin that, the son was like the father. Elhokar nodded to Dalinar from the end of the table, then continued his conversation with Sadeas. Highprince Roion sat a few seats down from him. Dalinar had an appointment with him in a few days, the first of the highprinces hed approach and try to convince to work with him on a joint plateau assault. No other highprinces came to sit near Dalinar. Only theyand people with specific invitationscould sit at the kings table. One man lucky enough to receive such an invitation sat on Elhokars left, obviously uncertain if he should join in the conversation or not.