Not much, Im afraid. There were no traces of trespassers on your balcony, and none of the servants reported any strangers in the area. There was someone watching me in the darkness that night. If so, they havent returned, Your Majesty. And they left no clues behind. Elhokar seemed dissatisfied, and the silence between them grew stark. Below, Adolin met with scouts and prepared for the troop crossing. Elhokar had protested at how many men Dalinar had brought. Most of them wouldnt be needed on the huntthe Shardbearers, not the soldiers, would slay the beast. But Dalinar would see his nephew protected. Parshendi raids had grown less bold during the years of fightingAlethi scribes guessed their numbers were a quarter their prior strength, though it was difficult to judgebut the kings presence might be enough to entice them into a reckless attack. The winds blew across Dalinar, returning with them that faint familiarity hed felt a few minutes before. Standing atop a peak, looking out at desolation. A sense of an awful and amazing perspective. Thats it, he thought. I did stand atop a formation like this. It happened during During one of his visions. The very first one. You must unite them, the strange, booming words had told him. You must prepare. Build of your people a fortress of strength and peace, a wall to resist the winds. Cease squabbling and unite. The Everstorm comes. Your Majesty, Dalinar found himself saying. I He trailed off as quickly as he began. What could he say? That hed been seeing visions? That in defiance of all doctrine and common sensehe thought those visions might be from the Almighty? That he thought they should withdraw from the battlefield and go back to Alethkar? Pure foolishness. Uncle? the king asked. What do you want? Nothing. Come, lets get back to the others. Adolin twisted one of his hogshide reins around his finger while he sat astride his horse, awaiting the next batch of scout reports. Hed managed to get his mind off his father and Sadeas, and was instead contemplating just how he was going to explain his falling out with Rilla in a way that would earn him some sympathy with Janala. Janala loved ancient epic poems; could he phrase the falling out in dramatic