was gleaming, cape streaming behind him. They switched sides as they turned in wide arcs, each heading for another leg. Meet your enemy, monster! Elhokar bellowed. Dalinar turned. The king had found his mount and had managed to get it under control. Vengeance wasnt a Ryshadium, but the animal was of the best Shin stock. Astride the animal, Elhokar charged, Blade held above his head. Well, there was no forbidding him the fight. He should be all right in his Plate so long as he kept moving. The legs, Elhokar! Dalinar shouted. Elhokar ignored him, charging directly for the beasts chest. Dalinar cursed, heeling Gallant as the monster swung. Elhokar turned at the last moment, leaning low, ducking under the blow. The chasmfiends claw hit stone with a cracking sound. It roared in anger at missing Elhokar, the sound echoing through the chasms. The king veered toward Dalinar, riding past him in a rush. Im distracting it, you fool. Keep attacking! I have the Ryshadium! Dalinar yelled back at him. Ill distractIm faster! Elhokar ignored him again. Dalinar sighed. Elhokar, characteristically, could not be contained. Arguing would only cost more time and more lives, so Dalinar did as hed been told. He rounded to the side for another approach, Gallants hooves beating against the stone ground. The king drew the monsters direct attention, and Dalinar was able to ride in and slam his Blade through another leg. The beast emitted four overlapping screams and turned toward Dalinar. But as it did, Adolin rode past on the other side, cutting at another leg with a deft strike. The leg slumped, and arrows rained down as archers continued to fire. The creature shook, confused by the attacks coming from every side. It was getting weak, and Dalinar raised his arm, gesturing. The command ordered the rest of the foot soldiers to retreat toward the pavilion. Orders given, he slipped in and killed another leg. That meant five down. Perhaps it was time to let the beast limp away; killing it now wasnt worth risking lives. He called to the king, who rodeBlade held out to the sidea short distance away. The king glanced at him, but obviously didnt hear. As the chasmfiend loomed in the background, Elhokar wheeled Vengeance in a sharp right turn toward Dalinar. There was a soft snap , and suddenly the kingand his saddlewent tumbling through the air. The horses quick turn had caused the saddle girth to break. A man in Shardplate was heavy and put a great strain on both his mount and saddle. Dalinar felt a spike of fear, and he reined in Gallant. Elhokar slammed to the