searching those grey clouds, wondering what it was that Tien found so interesting in them. Eventually, he heard splashing below, and Lirins face appeared at the side of the house. What in the he said. All three of you? What are you doing up here? Feasting, Kaladins mother said nonchalantly. On what? On irregularity, dear, she said. Lirin sighed. Dear, you can be very odd, you know. And didnt I just say that? Point. Well, come on. Theres a gathering in the square. Hesina frowned. She rose and walked down the slope of the roof. Kaladin glanced at Tien, and the two of them stood. Kaladin stuffed the wooden horse in his pocket and picked his way down, careful on the slick rock, his shoes squishing. Cool water ran down Kaladins cheeks as he stepped off onto the ground. They followed Lirin toward the square. Kaladins father looked worried, and he walked with the beaten-down slouch he was prone to lately. Maybe it was an affectation to fool Roshone, but Kaladin suspected there was some truth to it. His father didnt like having to give up those spheres, even if it was part of a ruse. It was too much like giving in. Ahead, a crowd was gathering at the town square, everyone holding umbrellas or wearing cloaks. What is it, Lirin? Hesina asked, sounding anxious. Roshone is going to put in an appearance, Lirin said. He asked Waber to gather everyone. Full town meeting. In the rain ? Kaladin asked. Couldnt he have waited for Lightday? Lirin didnt reply. The family walked in silence, even Tien growing solemn. They passed some rainspren standing in puddles, glowing with a faint blue light, shaped like ankle-high melting candles with no flame. They rarely appeared except during the Weeping. They were said to be the souls of raindrops, glowing blue rods, seeming to melt but never growing smaller, a single blue eye at their tops. The townspeople were mostly assembled, gossiping in the rain, by the time Kaladins family arrived. Jost and Naget were there, though neither waved to Kaladin; it had been years since theyd been anything resembling friends. Kaladin shivered. His parents called this town home, and his father refused to leave, but it felt less and less like home by the day. Ill be leaving it soon, he thought, eager to walk out of Hearthstone and leave these small-minded people behind. To go to a place where lighteyes were