She cowered down, kneeling on his palm, misty skirt around her legs, drops of rainwater passing through her and rippling her form. You dont like it then? I flew so farI almost forgot myself. But I came back. I came back , Kaladin. Why? he pled. Why do you care? Because I do, she said, cocking her head. I watched you, you know. Back in that army. Youd always find the young, untrained men and protect them, even though it put you into danger. I can remember. Just barely, but I do. I failed them. Theyre dead now. They would have died more quickly without you. You made it so they had a family in the army. I remember their gratitude. Its what drew me in the first place. You helped them. No, he said, clutching the blackbane in his fingers. Everything I touch withers and dies. He teetered on the ledge. Thunder rumbled in the distance. Those men in the bridge crew, Syl whispered. You could help them. Too late. He closed his eyes, thinking of the dead boy earlier in the day. Its too late. Ive failed. Theyre dead. Theyre all going to die, and theres no way out. What is one more try, then? Her voice was soft, yet somehow stronger than the storm. What could it hurt? He paused. You cant fail this time, Kaladin. Youve said it. Theyre all going to die anyway. He thought of Tien, and his dead eyes staring upward. I dont know what you mean most of the time when you speak, she said. My mind is so cloudy. But it seems that if youre worried about hurting people, you shouldnt be afraid to help the bridgemen. What more could you do to them? I One more try, Kaladin, Syl whispered. Please. One more try. The men huddled in the barrack with barely a blanket to call their own. Frightened of the storm. Frightened of each other. Frightened of what the next day would bring. One more try. He thought of himself, crying at the death of a boy he hadnt known. A boy he hadnt even tried to help. One more try. Kaladin opened his eyes. He was cold and wet, but he felt a tiny, warm candle flame of determination come alight inside him. He clenched his hand,