Adolin charged past, riding Sureblood. The lad had gone racing for his horse, rather than charging like Elhokar had. Dalinar himself had been forced to stay with the king. The other horseseven the warhorsespanicked, but Adolins white Ryshadium stallion held steady. In a moment, Gallant was there, trotting beside Dalinar. Dalinar grabbed the reins and heaved himself into the air with Plate-enhanced legs, jumping up into the saddle. The force of his landing might have strained the back of a regular horse, but Gallant was made of stronger stone than that. Elhokar closed his helm, the sides misting. Hold back, Your Majesty, Dalinar called, riding past. Wait until Adolin and I weaken it. Dalinar reached up, slamming down his own visor. The sides misted, locking it into place, and the sides of the helm became translucent to him. You still needed the eye slitlooking through the sides was like looking through dirty glassbut the translucence was one of the most wonderful parts of Shardplate. Dalinar rode into the monsters shadow. Soldiers scrambled about, clutching spears. They hadnt been trained to fight thirty-foot-tall beasts, and it was a testament to their valor that they formed up anyway, trying to draw attention away from the archers and the fleeing attendants. Arrows rained down, bouncing off the carapace and becoming more deadly to the troops below than they were to the chasmfiend. Dalinar raised his free arm to shade his eye slit as an arrow clanged off his helm. Adolin fell back as the beast swung at a batch of archers, crushing them with one of its claws. Ill take left, Adolin yelled, voice muffled by his helm. Dalinar nodded, cutting to the right, galloping past a group of dazed soldiers and into sunlight again as the chasmfiend raised a foreclaw for another sweep. Dalinar raced under the limb, transferring Oathbringer to his left hand and holding the sword out to the side, slashing it through one of the chasmfiends trunklike legs. The Blade sheared the thick chitin with barely a tug of resistance. As always, it didnt cut living flesh, though it killed the leg as surely as if it had been cut free. The large limb slipped, falling numb and useless. The monster roared with its deep, overlapping, trumpeting voices. On the other side, Dalinar could make out Adolin slicing at a leg. The creature shook, turning toward Dalinar. The two legs that had been cut dragged lifelessly. The monster was long and narrow like a cray-fish, and had a flattened tail. It walked on fourteen legs. How many could it lose before collapsing? Dalinar rounded Gallant, meeting up with Adolin, whose blue Shardplate