she had borrowed from other lighteyed women in the camp. Navani stood with her arms folded, the sunlight behind her like a halo. Dalinar hesitantly raised an armored forearm to block the light. Mathana? The rockwork, Navani said, nodding to the trough. Now, I wouldnt presume to make judgments; hitting things is a masculine art. But are you not in the possession of a sword that can cut through stone as easily asI once had it described to mea highstorm blows over a Herdazian? Dalinar looked back at the rocks. Then he raised his hammer again and slammed it into the stones, making a satisfying crunch. Shardblades are too good at cutting. Curious, she said. Ill do my best to pretend there was sense in that. As an aside, has it ever struck you that most masculine arts deal with destroying, while feminine arts deal with creation? Dalinar swung again. Bang! Remarkable how much easier it was to have a conversation with Navani while not looking directly at her. I do use the Blade to cut down the sides and middle. But I still have to break up the rocks. Have you ever tried to lift out a chunk of stone that has been sliced by a Shardblade? I cant say that I have. Its not easy. Bang! Blades make a very thin cut. The rocks still press against one another. Its hard to grasp or move them. Bang! Its more complicated than it seems. Bang! This is the best way. Navani dusted a few chips of stone from her dress. And more messy, I see. Bang! So, are you going to apologize? she asked. For? For missing our appointment. Dalinar froze in midswing. Hed completely forgotten that, at the feast when shed first returned, hed agreed to have Navani read for him today. He hadnt told his scribes of the appointment. He turned toward her, chagrined. Hed been angered because Thanadal had canceled their appointment, but at least he had thought to send a messenger. Navani stood with arms folded, safehand tucked away, sleek dress seeming to burn with sunlight. She bore a hint of a smile on her lips. By standing her up, hed put himselfby honorin her power. Im truly sorry, he said. Ive had some difficult things to consider lately, but that doesnt excuse forgetting you. I know. Ill ponder a way to let you make up for the lapse. But for now, you should know that one of your spanreeds is flashing. What? Which one?