Sixteen other bridge crews lined up with them, setting their bridges down. Behind, Sadeass heavy cavalry thundered across the plateau toward them. The Parshendi drew again. Kaladin gritted his teeth, throwing his weight against one of the wooden bars on the side, helping shove the massive construction across the chasm. He hated this part; the bridgemen were so exposed. Sadeass archers kept firing, moving to a focused, disruptive attack intended to force back the Parshendi. As always, the archers didnt seem to mind if they hit bridgemen, and several of those shafts flew dangerously close to Kaladin. He continued to pushsweating, bleedingand felt a stab of pride for Bridge Four. They were already beginning to move like warriors, light on their feet, moving erratically, making it more difficult for the archers to draw a bead on them. Would Gaz or Sadeass men notice? The bridge thumped into place, and Kaladin bellowed the retreat. Bridgemen ducked out of the way, dodging between thick-shafted black Parshendi arrows and lighter green-fletched ones from Sadeass archers. Moash and Rock hoisted themselves up onto the bridge and ran across it, leaping down beside Kaladin. Others scattered around the back of the bridge, ducking in front of the oncoming cavalry charge. Kaladin lingered, waving for his men to get out of the way. Once they were all free, he glanced back at the bridge, which bristled with arrows. Not a single man down. A miracle. He turned to run Someone stumbled to his feet on the other side of the bridge. Dunny. The youthful bridgeman had a white and green fletched arrow sprouting from his shoulder. His eyes were wide, dazed. Kaladin cursed, running back. Before hed taken two steps, a black-hafted arrow took the youth in the other side. He fell to the deck of the bridge, blood spraying the dark wood. The charging horses did not slow. Frantic, Kaladin reached the side of the bridge, but something pulled him back. Hands on his shoulder. He stumbled, spinning to find Moash there. Kaladin snarled at him, trying to shove the man aside, but Moashusing a move Kaladin himself had taught himyanked Kaladin sideways, tripping him. Moash threw himself down, holding Kaladin to the ground as heavy cavalry thundered across the bridge, arrows cracking against their silvery armor. Broken bits of arrow sprinkled to the ground. Kaladin struggled for a moment, but then let himself fall still. Hes dead, Moash said, harshly. Theres nothing you could have done. Im sorry.