A short time later, Shallan returned to the alcove to discover that her haste had been unnecessary. Jasnah wasnt there. Kabsal, however, was. The youthful ardent sat at the long desk, flipping through one of Shallans books on art. Shallan noticed him before he saw her, and she found herself smiling despite her troubles. She folded her arms and adopted a dubious expression. Again? she asked. Kabsal leaped up, slapping the book closed. Shallan, he said, his bald head reflecting the blue light of her parshmans lantern. I came looking for For Jasnah, Shallan said. As always. And yet, shes never here when you come. An unfortunate coincidence, he said, raising a hand to his forehead. I am a poor judge of timing, am I not? And is that a basket of bread at your feet? A gift for Brightness Jasnah, he said. From the Devotary of Insight. I doubt a bread basket is going to persuade her to renounce her heresy, Shallan said. Perhaps if youd included jam. The ardent smiled, picking up the basket and pulling out a small jar of red simberry jam. Of course, Ive told you that Jasnah doesnt like jam, Shallan said And yet you bring it anyway, knowing jam to be among my favorite foods. And youve done this oha dozen times in the last few months? Im growing a bit transparent, arent I? Just a tad, she said, smiling. Its about my soul, isnt it? Youre worried about me because Im apprenticed to a heretic. Erwell, yes, Im afraid. Id be insulted, Shallan said. But you did bring jam. She smiled, waving for her parshman to deposit her books and then wait beside the doorway. Was it true that there were parshmen on the Shattered Plains who were fighting ? That seemed hard to credit. Shed never known any parshman to as much as raise their voice. They didnt seem bright enough for disobedience. Of course, some reports shed heardincluding those Jasnah had made her read when studying King Gavilars murderindicated that the Parshendi werent like other parshmen. They were bigger, had odd armor that grew from their skin itself, and spoke far more frequently. Perhaps they werent parshmen at all, but some kind of distant cousin, a different race entirely. She sat down at the desk as Kabsal got out the bread, her parshman waiting at the doorway. A parshman wasnt much of a chaperone, but Kabsal was an