Jasnah remained on her stool, regarding Kabsal across the bed. I would have thought, she said dryly, that you would allow Shallan a respite, considering how your attentions drove her to despair. Kabsal flushed. He looked at Shallan, and she could see the pleading in his eyes. It wasnt you, Kabsal, Shallan said. I justI wasnt ready for life away from my family estate. I still dont know what came over me. Ive never done anything like that before. He smiled, pulling a stool over for himself. I think, he said, that the lack of color in these places is what keeps people sick so long. That and the lack of proper food. He winked, turning the jar toward Shallan. It was deep, dark red. Strawberry. Never heard of it, Shallan said. Its exceedingly rare, Jasnah said, reaching for the jar. Like most plants from Shinovar, it cant grow other places. Kabsal looked surprised as Jasnah removed the lid and dipped a finger into the jar. She hesitated, then raised a bit of the jam to her nose to sniff at it. I was under the impression that you disliked jam, Brightness Jasnah, Kabsal said. I do, she said. I was simply curious about the scent. Ive heard that strawberries are very distinctive. She screwed the lid back on, then wiped her finger on her cloth handkerchief. I brought bread as well, Kabsal said. He pulled out a small loaf of the fluffy bread. Its nice of you not to blame me, Shallan, but I can see that my attentions were too forward. I thought, maybe, I could bring this and And what? Jasnah asked. Absolve yourself? Im sorry I drove you to suicide. Heres some bread. He blushed, looking down. Of course Ill have some, Shallan said, glaring at Jasnah. And she will too. It was very kind of you, Kabsal. She took the bread, breaking off a chunk for Kabsal, one for herself, then one for Jasnah. No, Jasnah said. Thank you. Jasnah, Shallan said. Would you please at least try some? It bothered her that the two of them got on so poorly. The older woman sighed. Oh, very well. She took the bread, holding it as Shallan and Kabsal ate. The bread was moist and delicious, though Jasnah grimaced as she put hers in her mouth and chewed it. You should really try the jam, Kabsal said to Shallan. Strawberry is hard to find. I had to make quite a number of inquiries.