Dalinar looked at Adolin. It sounds like its worth a try, son. Maybe, Adolin said. But we cant take the existence of a single place as proof. You could have heard of this Feverstone Keep, and therefore included it. Well, Renarin said, that may be true. But if what Father sees are just delusions, then certainly well be able to prove some parts of them untrue. It seems impossible that every detail he imagines is one that he got from a story or history. Some aspects of the delusions would have to be pure fancy. Adolin nodded slowly. IYoure right, Renarin. Yes, its a good plan. We need to get one of my scribes, Dalinar said. So I can dictate the vision I just had while it is fresh. Yes, Renarin said. The more details we have, the easier it will be to prove or disprovethe visions. Dalinar grimaced, setting aside his cup and walking over to the others. He sat down. All right, but who would we use to record the dictation? You have a great number of clerks, Father, Renarin said. And theyre all either wife or daughter to one of my officers, Dalinar said. How could he explain? It was painful enough for him to expose weakness to his sons. If news of what he saw got around to his officers, it could weaken morale. There might come a time to reveal these things to his men, but he would need to do so carefully. And hed much rather know for himself whether or not he was mad before he approached others. Yes, Adolin said, noddingthough Renarin still looked perplexed. I understand. But, Father, we cant afford to wait for Jasnah to return. It could be months yet. Agreed. Dalinar said. He sighed. There was another option. Renarin, send a runner for your aunt Navani. Adolin glanced at Dalinar, raising an eyebrow. Its a good idea. But I thought you didnt trust her. I trust her to keep her word, Dalinar said, resigned. And to keep confidence. I told her of my plans to abdicate, and she didnt tell a soul. Navani was excellent at keeping secrets. Far better than the women of his court. He trusted them to an extent, but keeping a secret like this would require someone supremely exacting in their words and thoughts. That meant Navani. She would probably find a way to manipulate him using the knowledge, but at least the secret would be safe from his men. Go, Renarin, Dalinar said. Renarin nodded and stood. He had apparently recovered from his fit, and walked surefooted to the door. As he left, Adolin approached Dalinar. Father, what will you do if we prove that Im right, and its just your own mind?