Of course, Amaram had failed to protect Tien. But so had Kaladin. Sir? Dallet said hesitantly. Subsquads Two and Three, pincer pattern, Kaladin said coldly, pointing at the enemy lighteyes. Were taking a brightlord off his throne. You sure thats wise, sir? Dallet said. Weve got wounded. Kaladin turned toward Dallet. Thats one of Hallaws officers. He might be the one. You dont know that, sir. Regardless, hes a battalionlord. If we kill an officer that high, were all but guaranteed to be in the next group sent to the Shattered Plains. Were taking him. Imagine it, Dallet. Real soldiers. A warcamp with discipline and lighteyes with integrity. A place where our fighting will mean something. Dallet sighed, but nodded. At Kaladins wave, two subsquads joined him, as eager as he. Did they hate these squabbling lighteyes of their own accord, or had they picked up Kaladins loathing? The brightlord was surprisingly easy to take down. The problem with them almost to a manwas that they underestimated darkeyes. Perhaps this one had a right. How many had he killed, in his years? Subsquad three drew off the honor guard. Subsquad two distracted the lighteyes. He didnt see Kaladin approaching from a third direction. The man dropped with a knife to the eye; his face was unprotected. He screamed as he clattered to the ground, still alive. Kaladin rammed his spear down into the fallen mans face, striking three times as the horse galloped off. The mans honor guard panicked and fled to rejoin their army. Kaladin signaled to the two subsquads by banging his spear against his shield, giving the hold position sign. They fanned out, and short Toorima man Kaladin had rescued from another squadmade as if to confirm the light-eyes was dead. He was really covertly looking for spheres. Stealing from the dead was strictly prohibited, but Kaladin figured that if Amaram wanted the spoils, he could storming well kill the enemy himself. Kaladin respected Amaram more than mostwell, more than any lighteyes. But bribes werent cheap. Toorim walked up to him. Nothing sir. Either he didnt bring any spheres into battle, or he has them hidden somewhere under that breastplate. Kaladin nodded curtly, surveying the battlefield. Amarams forces were recovering; theyd win the day before long. In fact, Amaram would probably be leading a direct surge against the enemy by now. He generally entered the battle at the end. Kaladin wiped his brow. Hed have to send for Norby, their captainlord, to