his father would have already begun working on it, using Kals motherHesina as an assistant. Lirin walked to the side of the room and gathered up a few small, clear bottles. He was a short man, balding despite his relative youth. He wore his spectacles, which he called the most precious gift hed ever been given. He rarely got them out except for surgery, as they were too valuable to risk just wearing about. What if they were scratched or broken? Hearthstone was a large town, but its remote location in northern Alethkar would make replacing the spectacles difficult. The room was kept neat, the shelves and table washed clean each morning, everything in its place. Lirin said you could tell a lot about a man from how he kept his workspace. Was it sloppy or orderly? Did he respect his tools or did he leave them casually about? The towns only fabrial clock sat here on the counter. The small device bore a single dial at the center and a glowing Smokestone at its heart; it had to be infused to keep the time. Nobody else in the town cared about minutes and hours as Lirin did. Kal pulled over a stool to get a better vantage. Soon he wouldnt need the stool; he was growing taller by the day. He inspected Sanis hand. Shell be all right, he told himself, as his father had trained him. A surgeon needs to be calm. Worry just wastes time. It was hard advice to follow. Hands, Lirin said, not turning away from gathering his tools. Kal sighed, hopping off his stool and hurrying over to the basin of warm, soapy water by the door. Why does it matter? He wanted to be at work, helping Sani. Wisdom of the Heralds, Lirin said absently, repeating a lecture hed given many times before. Deathspren and rotspren hate water. It will keep them away. Hammie says thats silly, Kal said. He says deathspren are mighty good at killing folk, so why should they be afraid of a little water? The Heralds were wise beyond our understanding. Kal grimaced. But theyre demons , father. I heard it off that ardent who came teaching last spring. Thats the Radiants he spoke of, Lirin said sharply. Youre mixing them again. Kal sighed. The Heralds were sent to teach mankind, Lirin said. They led us against the Voidbringers after we were cast from heaven. The Radiants were the orders of knights they founded.