Life before death. Kaladin stood up, opening his eyes, dropping the small rock. He walked slowly back toward the torchlight. The bridgemen looked up from their work. So many questioning eyes. Some doubtful, some grim, others encouraging. Rock, Dunny, Hobber, Leyten. They believed in him. He had survived the storms. One miracle granted. There is something we could try, Kaladin said. But it will most likely end with us all dead at the hands of our own army. Were bound to end up dead anyway, Maps noted. You said so yourself. Several of the others nodded. Kaladin took a deep breath. We have to try to escape. But the warcamp is guarded! said Earless Jaks. Bridgemen arent allowed out without supervision. They know wed run. Wed die, Moash said, face grim. Were miles and miles from civilization. Theres nothing out here but greatshells, and no shelter from highstorms. I know, Kaladin said. But its either this or the Parshendi arrows. The men fell silent. Theyre going to send us down here every day to rob corpses, Kaladin said. And they dont send us with supervision, since they fear the chasmfiends. Most bridgeman work is busywork, to distract us from our fate, so we only have to bring back a small amount of salvage. You think we should choose one of these chasms and flee down it? Skar asked. Theyve tried to map them all. The crews never reached the other side of the Plainsthey got killed by chasmfiends or highstorm floods. Kaladin shook his head. Thats not what were going to do. He kicked at something on the ground before hima fallen spear. His kick sent it into the air toward Moash, who caught it, surprised. I can train you to use those, Kaladin said softly. The men fell silent, looking at the weapon. What good would this thing do? Rock asked, taking the spear from Moash, looking it over. We cannot fight an army. No, Kaladin said. But if I train you, then we can attack a guard post at night. We might be able to get away. Kaladin looked at them, meeting each mans eyes in turn. Once were free, theyll send soldiers after us. Sadeas wont let bridgemen kill his soldiers and get away with it. Well have to hope he underestimates us and sends a small group at first. If we kill them, we might be able to get far enough away to hide. It will be dangerous. Sadeas will go to great lengths to recapture us, and well likely end with an entire company chasing us