The stone thumped softly to the floor, and Szeth leaped off. He shed his clothing, revealing a black and white master-servants outfit underneath. He took a matching cap from the pocket and slipped it on, reluctantly dismissed his Blade, then slipped into the hallway and quickly Lashed the door shut. These days, he rarely gave a thought to the fact that he walked on stone. Once, he would have revered a corridor of rock like this. Had that man once been him? Had he ever revered anything? Szeth hurried onward. His time was short. Fortunately, King Taravangian kept a strict schedule. Seventh bell: private reflection in his study. Szeth could see the doorway into the study ahead, guarded by two soldiers. Szeth bowed his head, hiding his Shin eyes and hurrying up to them. One of the men held out his hand wardingly, so Szeth grabbed it, twisting, shattering the wrist. He smashed his elbow into the mans face, throwing him back against the wall. The mans stunned companion opened his mouth to yell, but Szeth kicked him in the stomach. Even without a Shardblade, he was dangerous, infused with Stormlight and trained in kammar. He grabbed the second guard by the hair and slammed his forehead against the rock floor. Then he rose and kicked open the door. He walked into a room well illuminated by a double row of lamps on the left. Crammed bookcases covered the right wall from floor to ceiling. A man sat cross-legged on a small rug directly ahead of Szeth. The man looked out an enormous window cut through the rock, staring at the ocean beyond. Szeth strode forward. I have been instructed to tell you that the others are dead. Ive come to finish the job. He raised his hands, Shardblade forming. The king did not turn. Szeth hesitated. He had to make certain the man acknowledged what had been said. Did you hear me? Szeth demanded, striding forward. Did you kill my guards, Szeth-son-son-Vallano? the king asked quietly. Szeth froze. He cursed and stepped backward, raising his Blade in a defensive stance. Another trap? You have done your work well, the king said, still not facing him. Leaders dead, lives lost. Panic and chaos. Was this your destiny? Do you wonder? Given that monstrosity of a Shardblade by your people, cast out and absolved of any sin your masters might require of you? I am not absolved, Szeth said, still wary. It is a common mistake stone- walkers make. Each life I take weighs me down, eating away at my soul. The voices the screams spirits below, I can hear them howling. Yet you kill.