Tien found another lurg. Distant men worked the fields, wearing overalls, laced brown shirts, and sturdy boots. It was worming season. A single worm could ruin an entire polyps worth of grain. It would incubate inside, slowly eating as the grain grew. When you finally opened up the polyp in the fall, all youd find was a big fat slug the size of two mens hands. And so they searched in the spring, going over each polyp. Where they found a burrow, theyd stick in a reed tipped with sugar, which the worm would latch on to. You pulled it out and squished it under your heel, then patched the hole with crem. It could take weeks to properly worm a field, and farmers usually went over their hills three or four times, fertilizing as they went. Kal had heard the process described a hundred times over. You didnt live in a town like Hearthstone without listening to men gripe about worms. Oddly, he noticed a group older boys gathering at the foot of one of the hills. He recognized all of them, of course. Jost and Jest, brothers. Mord, Tift, Naget, Khav, and others. They each had solid, Alethi darkeyes names. Not like Kaladins own name. It was different. Why arent they worming? he asked. I dont know, Laral said, shifting her attention to the boys. She got an odd look in her eyes. Lets go see. She started down the hillside before Kal had a chance to object. He scratched his head, looking toward Tien. Were going down to the hillside there. A youthful head popped up behind a boulder. Tien nodded energetically, then turned back to his searching. Kal slipped off the boulder and walked down the slope after Laral. She reached the boys, and they regarded her with uncomfortable expressions. Shed never spent much time with them, not like she had with Kal and Tien. Her father and his were pretty good friends, for all that one was lighteyed and the other dark. Laral took a perch on a nearby rock, waiting and saying nothing. Kal walked up. Why had she wanted to come down here, if she wasnt going to talk to the other boys? Ho, Jost, Kal said. Senior among the boys at fourteen, Jost was nearly a manand he looked it too. His chest was broad beyond his years, his legs thick and stocky, like those of his father. He was holding a length of wood from a sapling that had been shaved into a rough approximation of a quarterstaff. Why arent you worming? It was the wrong thing to say, and Kal knew it immediately. Several of the boys expressions darkened. It was a sore point to them that Kal never had to work the hills. His proteststhat he spent hours upon hours memorizing