doing very well lately. Dalinar tapped Sadeass warcamp. Hes been buying plateaus from other highprinces, making it easier and easier for him to get to the battlefields first. Yes, Roion said, frowning. One hardly needs to see a map to know that, Dalinar. Look at the scope of it, Dalinar said. Six years of continuous fighting, and nobody has even seen the center of the Shattered Plains. Thats never been the point. We hold them in, besiege them, starve them out, and force them to come to us. Wasnt that your plan? Yes, but I never imagined it would take this long. Ive been thinking that it might be time to change tactics. Why? This one works. Hardly a week goes by without a couple of clashes with the Parshendi. Though, might I point out that you have hardly been a model of inspiration in battle lately. He nodded to Dalinars name on the smaller sheet. There were a good number of scratches next to his name, noting gemhearts won. But very few of them were fresh. There are some who say the Blackthorn has lost his sting, Roion said. He was careful not to insult Dalinar outright, but he went further than he once would have. News of Dalinars actions while trapped in the barrack had spread. Dalinar forced himself to be calm. Roion, we cannot continue to treat this war as a game. All wars are games. The greatest kind, with the pieces lost real lives, the prizes captured making for real wealth! This is the life for which men exist. To fight, to kill, to win. He was quoting the Sunmaker, the last Alethi king to unite the highprinces. Gavilar had once revered his name. Perhaps, Dalinar said. Yet what is the point? We fight to get Shardblades, then use those Shardblades to fight to get more Shardblades. Its a circle, round and round we go, chasing our tails so we can be better at chasing our tails. We fight to prepare ourselves to reclaim heaven and take back what is ours. Men can train without going to war, and men can fight without it being meaningless. It wasnt always this way. There were times when our wars meant something. Roion raised an eyebrow. Youre almost making me believe the rumors, Dalinar. They say youve lost your taste for combat, that you no longer have the will to fight. He eyed Dalinar again. Some are saying that it is time to abdicate in favor of your son. The rumors are wrong, Dalinar snapped.