Is good to meet a lowlander who can sing, Rock said, stooping down to pick up a helm and stuff it in his bag. This particular chasm didnt seem to have much in the way of salvage this time. I had begun thinking you were all as tone deaf as my fathers old axehound. Ha! Dunny blushed, but seemed to walk more confidently. They continued, occasionally passing turns or rifts in the stone where the waters had deposited large clusters of salvage. Here, the work turned more gruesome, and theyd often have to pull out corpses or piles of bones to get what they wanted, gagging at the scent. Kaladin told them to leave the more sickening or rotted bodies for now. Rotspren tended to cluster around the dead. If they didnt find enough salvage later, they could get those on the way back. At every intersection or branch, Kaladin made a white mark on the wall with a piece of chalk. That was the bridgeleaders duty, and he took it seriously. He wouldnt have his crew getting lost out in these rifts. As they walked and worked, Kaladin kept the conversation going. He laughedforced himself to laughwith them. If that laugher felt hollow to him, the others didnt seem to notice. Perhaps they felt as he did, that even forced laughter was preferable to going back to the self-absorbed, mournful silence that cloaked most bridgemen. Before long, Dunny was laughing and talking with Teft and Rock, his shyness faded. A few others hovered just behindYake, Maps, a couple of otherslike wild creatures drawn to the light and warmth of a fire. Kaladin tried to draw them into the conversation, but it didnt work, so eventually he just let them be. Eventually, they reached a place with a significant number of fresh corpses. Kaladin wasnt sure what combination of waterflow had made this section of chasm a good place for thatit looked the same as other stretches. A little narrower perhaps. Sometimes they could go to the same nooks and find good salvage there; other times, those were empty, but other places would have dozens of corpses. These bodies looked like theyd floated in the wash of the highstorm flood, then been deposited as the water slowly receded. There were no Parshendi among them, and they were broken and torn from either their fall or the crush of the flood. Many were missing limbs. The stink of blood and viscera hung in the humid air. Kaladin held his torch aloft as his companions fell silent. The dank chill kept the bodies from rotting too quickly, though the dampness counteracted some of that. The cremlings had begun chewing the skin off hands and gnawing out the eyes. Soon the stomachs would bloat with gas. Some rotsprentiny, red, translucentscrambled across