Renarin watched with keen interest, bespectacled eyes curious, intense. If only the lad could be persuaded to become an ardent. He could be an engineer then, if he wanted. And yet he refused. His reasons always seemed like poor excuses to Dalinar. Its kind of bulky, Dalinar noted. Well, its just an early model, Navani said defensively. I was working backward from one of those dreadful creations of Longshadows, and I didnt have the luxury of refining the shape. I think it has a lot of potential. Imagine a few of these on a battlefield to dull the pain of wounded soldiers. Imagine it in the hands of a surgeon, who wouldnt have to worry about his patients pain while working on them. Adolin nodded. Dalinar had to admit, it did sound like a useful device. Navani smiled. This is a special time to be alive; were learning all kinds of things about fabrials. This, for instance, is a diminishing fabrial it decreases something, in this case pain. It doesnt actually make the wound any better, but it might be a step in that direction. Either way, its a completely different type from paired fabrials like the spanreeds. If you could see the plans we have for the future Like what? Adolin asked. Youll find out eventually, Navani said, smiling mysteriously. She removed the fabrial from Adolins hand. Shardblades? Adolin sounded excited. Well, no, Navani said. The design and workings of Shardblades and Plate are completely different from everything weve discovered. The closest anyone has are those shields in Jah Keved. But as far as I can tell, they use a completely different design principle from regular Shardplate. The ancients must have had a wondrous grasp of engineering. No, Dalinar said. Ive seen them, Navani. Theyre well, theyre ancient. Their technology is primitive. And the Dawncities? Navani asked skeptically. The fabrials? Dalinar shook his head. Ive seen neither. There are Shardblades in the visions, but they seem so out of place. Perhaps they were given directly by the Heralds, as the legends say. Perhaps, Navani said. Why dont She vanished. Dalinar blinked. He hadnt heard the highstorm approaching. He was now in a large, open room with pillars running along the sides. The enormous pillars looked sculpted of soft sandstone, with unornamented, granular sides. The ceiling was far above, carved from the rock in geometric patterns that