Sadeas should lose control of himself and finally kill me, perhaps you can be Kings Wit in my stead. You seem to have the mind for it. Renarin perked up, which darkened Sadeass mood further. Dalinar eyed the highprince; Sadeass hand had gone to his sword. Not a Shardblade, for Sadeas didnt have one. But he did carry a lighteyess side sword. Plenty deadly; Dalinar had fought beside Sadeas on many occasions, and the man was an expert swordsman. Wit stepped forward. So what of it, Sadeas? he asked softly. You going to do Alethkar a favor and rid it of us both? Killing the Kings Wit was legal. But by so doing, Sadeas would forfeit his title and lands. Most men found it a poor enough trade not to do it in the open. Of course, if you could assassinate a Wit without anyone knowing it was you, that was something different. Sadeas slowly removed his hand from the hilt of his sword, then nodded curtly to the king and strode away. Wit, Elhokar said, Sadeas has my favor. Theres no need to torment him so. I disagree, Wit said. The kings favor may be torment enough for most men, but not him. The king sighed and looked toward Dalinar. I should go placate Sadeas. Ive been meaning to ask you, though. Have you looked into the issue I asked you about earlier? Dalinar shook his head. I have been busy with the needs of the army. But I will look into it now, Your Majesty. The king nodded, then hastened off after Sadeas. What was that, Father? Adolin asked. Is it about the people he thinks were spying on him? No, Dalinar said. This is something new. Ill show you shortly. Dalinar looked toward Wit. The black-clad man was popping his knuckles one at a time, looking at Sadeas, seeming contemplative. He noticed Dalinar watching and winked, then walked away. I like him, Adolin repeated. I might be persuaded to agree, Dalinar said, rubbing his chin. Renarin, Dalinar said, go and get a report on the wounded. Adolin, come with me. We need to check into the matter the king spoke of. Both young men looked confused, but they did as requested. Dalinar started across the plateau toward where the carcass of the chasmfiend lay. Let us see what your worries have brought us this time, nephew, he thought.