to help with the transfer. The men hed sent ahead were there, Teft looking grim, Skar leaning on a spear to support his wounded leg. A small group of dead spearmen lay nearby. Sadeass soldiers retrieved their wounded, when possible, but some died as they were helped along. Theyd abandoned some of those here; Sadeas was obviously in a hurry to leave the scene. The dead had been left with their equipment. Skar had probably gotten his crutch there. Some poor bridge crew would have to cross all the way back here at a later date to salvage from these, and from Dalinars fallen. They set their bridge down, and Kaladin wiped his brow. Dont place the bridge across the chasm, he told the men. Well wait until the last of the soldiers have crossed, then carry it over on one of the other bridges. Matal eyed Kaladin and his team, but didnt order them to set their bridge. He realized that by the time they got it into position, theyd have to pull it up again. Isnt that a sight? Moash said, stepping up beside Kaladin, looking back. Kaladin turned. The Tower rose behind them, sloped in their direction. Kholins army was a circle of blue, trapped in the middle of the slope after trying to push down and get to Sadeas before he left. The Parshendi were a dark swarm with specks of red from their marbled skins. They pressed at the Alethi ring, compressing it. Such a shame, Drehy said from beside their bridge, sitting on its lip. Makes me sick. Other bridgemen nodded, and Kaladin was surprised to see the concern in their faces. Rock and Teft joined Kaladin and Moash, all wearing their Parshendi-carapace armor. He was glad theyd left Shen back in the camp. Hed have been catatonic at the sight of it all. Teft cradled his wounded arm. Rock raised a hand to shade his eyes and shook his head, looking eastward. Is a shame. A shame to Sadeas. A shame to us. Bridge Four, Matal called. Come on! Matal was waving for them to cross Bridge Sixs bridge and leave the staging plateau. An idea came to Kaladin suddenly. A fantastic idea, like a blooming rockbud in his mind. Well follow with our own bridge, Matal, Kaladin called. We only just got to the chasm. We need to sit for a few minutes. Cross now! Matal yelled. Well just fall further behind! Kaladin retorted. You want to explain to Sadeas why he has to hold the entire army for one miserable bridge crew? Weve got our bridge. Let my men rest. Well catch up to you later. And if those savages come after you? Matal demanded.