surfaces or in different directions. From Szeths perspective, the hallway was now a deep shaft down which he was falling, and the two guards stood on one of the sides. They were shocked when Szeths feet hit them, one for each face, throwing them over. Szeth shifted his view and Lashed himself to the floor. Light leaked from him. The floor of the hallway again became down , and he landed between the two guards, clothes crackling and dropping flakes of frost. He rose, beginning the process of summoning his Shardblade. One of the guards fumbled for his spear. Szeth reached down, touching the soldiers shoulder while looking up. He focused on a point above him while willing the Light out of his body and into the guard, Lashing the poor man to the ceiling. The guard yelped in shock as up became down for him. Light trailing from his form, he crashed into the ceiling and dropped his spear. It was not Lashed directly, and clattered back down to the floor near Szeth. To kill. It was the greatest of sins. And yet here Szeth stood, Truthless, profanely walking on stones used for building. And it would not end. As Truthless, there was only one life he was forbidden to take. And that was his own. At the tenth beat of his heart, his Shardblade dropped into his waiting hand. It formed as if condensing from mist, water beading along the metal length. His Shardblade was long and thin, edged on both sides, smaller than most others. Szeth swept it out, carving a line in the stone floor and passing through the second guards neck. As always, the Shardblade killed oddly; though it cut easily through stone, steel, or anything inanimate, the metal fuzzed when it touched living skin. It traveled through the guards neck without leaving a mark, but once it did, the mans eyes smoked and burned. They blackened, shriveling up in his head, and he slumped forward, dead. A Shardblade did not cut living flesh; it severed the soul itself. Above, the first guard gasped. Hed managed to get to his feet, even though they were planted on the ceiling of the hallway. Shardbearer! he shouted. A Shardbearer assaults the kings hall! To arms! Finally, Szeth thought. Szeths use of Stormlight was unfamiliar to the guards, but they knew a Shardblade when they saw one. Szeth bent down and picked up the spear that had fallen from above. As he did so, he released the breath hed been holding since drawing in the Stormlight. It sustained him while he held it, but those two lanterns hadnt contained much of it, so he would need to breathe again soon. The Light began to leak away