hair. And yet now, because of Rocks gift, they all had neatly trimmed beards or clean-shaven faces. Everything else about them was worn. But their faces were clean. Kaladin raised a hesitant hand to his face, touching his unkempt black beard. The men seemed to be waiting for something. What? he asked. The men shifted uncomfortably, glancing toward the lumberyard. They were waiting for him to lead them in practice, of course. But practice was futile. He opened his mouth to tell them that, but hesitated as he saw something approaching. Four men, carrying a palanquin. A tall, thin man in a violet lighteyess coat walked beside it. The men turned to look. Whats this? Hobber asked, scratching at his thick neck. It will be Lamarils replacement, Kaladin said, gently pushing his way through the line of bridgemen. Syl flitted down and landed on his shoulder as the palanquin bearers stopped before Kaladin and turned to the side, revealing a dark-haired woman wearing a sleek violet dress decorated with golden glyphs. She lounged on her side, resting on a cushioned couch, her eyes a pale blue. I am Brightness Hashal, she said, voice lightly touched by a Kholinar accent. My husband, Brightlord Matal, is your new captain. Kaladin held his tongue, biting back a remark. He had some experience with lighteyes who got promoted to positions like this one. Matal himself said nothing, simply standing with his hand resting on the hilt of his sword. He was tallnearly as tall as Kaladinbut spindly. Delicate hands. That sword hadnt seen much practice. We have been advised, Hashal said, that this crew has been troublesome. Her eyes narrowed, focusing on Kaladin. It seems that you have survived the Almightys judgment. I bear a message for you from your betters. The Almighty has given you another chance to prove yourself as a bridgeman. That is all. Many are trying to read too much into what happened, so Highprince Sadeas has forbidden gawkers to come see you. My husband does not intend to run the bridge crews with his predecessors laxness. My husband is a well-respected and honored associate of Highprince Sadeas himself, not some near-darkeyed mongrel like Lamaril. Is that so? Kaladin said. Then how did he end up in this latrine pit of a job? Hashal didnt display a hint of anger at the comment. She flicked her fingers to the side, and one of the soldiers stepped forward and rammed the butt of his spear toward Kaladins stomach. Kaladin caught it, old reflexes still too keen. Possibilities flashed through his