where, I said it. That wont happen again. Dalinar nodded, and that was enough. Adolin seemed to relax, a weight coming off his shoulders, and Dalinar turned back to his officers. In moments, he and Adolin were leading a hurried group to the staging area. As they did, Dalinar did note Adolin waving to a young woman who stood beside the way, wearing a red dress, her hair up in a very nice braiding. Is thater Malasha? Adolin said. Yes. She looks nice. Most of the time she is, though shes somewhat annoyed that I wouldnt let her come with me today. She wanted to come into battle ? Adolin shrugged. Says shes curious. Dalinar said nothing. Battle was a masculine art. A woman wanting to come to the battlefield was likewell, like a man wanting to read. Unnatural. Ahead, in the staging area, the battalions were forming ranks, and a squat lighteyed officer hurried up to Dalinar. He had patches of red hair on his otherwise dark Alethi head and a long, red mustache. Ilamar, the cavalrylord. Brightlord, he said, my apologies for the delay. Cavalry is mounted and ready. We march, then, Dalinar said. All ranks Brightlord! a voice said. Dalinar turned as one of his messengers approached. The darkeyed man wore leathers marked with blue bands on the arms. He saluted, saying, Highprince Sadeas has demanded admittance to the warcamp! Dalinar glanced at Adolin. His sons expression darkened. He claims the kings writ of investigation grants him the right, the messenger said. Admit him, Dalinar said. Yes, Brightlord, the messenger said, turning back. One of the lesser officers, Moratel, went with him so that Sadeas could be welcomed and escorted by a lighteyes as befitted his station. Moratel was least among those in attendance; everyone understood he was the one Dalinar would send. What do you think Sadeas wants this time? Dalinar said quietly to Adolin. Our blood. Preferably warm, perhaps sweetened with a shot of tallew brandy. Dalinar grimaced, and the two of them hurried past the ranks of soldiers. The men had an air of anticipation, spears held high, darkeyed citizen officers standing at the sides with axes on their shoulders. At the front of the force, a