not to get too absorbed in her studies. It had been only two months since shed convinced Jasnah to take her as a ward, but already she felt half as timid and twice as confident. The most difficult thing of all was knowing that it would soon end. Coming to study in Kharbranth was, without doubt, the most wonderful thing that had ever happened to her. I will manage, she wrote. You are the ones living the difficult life, maintaining our familys interests at home. How are you doing? It took time for them to reply. Poorly, Eylita finally sent. Your fathers debts are coming due, and Wikim can barely keep the creditors distracted. The highprince ails, and everyone wants to know where our house stands on the question of succession. The last of the quarries is running out. If it becomes known that we no longer have resources, it will go badly for us. Shallan grimaced. How long do I have? A few more months, at best, Nan Balat sent back via his betrothed. It depends on how long the highprince lasts and whether or not anyone realizes why Asha Jushu is selling our possessions. Jushu was the youngest of the brothers, just older than Shallan. His old gambling habit was actually coming in handy. For years, hed been stealing things from their father and selling them to cover his losses. He pretended he was still doing that, but he brought the money back to help. He was a good man, despite his habit. And, all things considered, he really couldnt be blamed for much of what hed done. None of them could. Wikim thinks that he can keep everyone at bay for a while longer. But we are getting desperate. The sooner you return with the Soulcaster, the better. Shallan hesitated, then wrote, Are we certain this is the best way? Perhaps we should simply ask Jasnah for help. You think she would respond to that? they wrote back. She would help an unknown and disliked Veden house? She would keep our secrets? Probably not. Though Shallan was increasingly certain that Jasnahs reputation was exaggerated, the woman did have a ruthless side to her. She would not leave her important studies to go help Shallans family. She reached for the reed to reply, but it started scribbling again. Shallan, it said. This is Nan Balat; I have sent the others away. It is only Eylita and me writing you now. There is something you need to know. Luesh is dead. Shallan blinked in surprise. Luesh, her fathers steward, had been the one who had known how to use the Soulcaster. He was one of the few people she and her brothers had determined they could trust. What happened? she wrote after switching to a new sheet of paper. He died in his sleep, and theres no reason to suspect he was killed. But