It is my punishment, Szeth said. To kill, to have no choice, but to bear the sins nonetheless. I am Truthless. Truthless, the king mused. I would say that you know much truth. More than your countrymen, now. He finally turned to face Szeth, and Szeth saw that he had been wrong about this man. King Taravangian was no simpleton. He had keen eyes and a wise, knowing face, rimmed with a full white beard, the mustaches drooping like arrow points. You have seen what death and murder do to a man. You could say, Szeth-son-son-Vallano, that you bear great sins for your people. You understand what they cannot. And so you have truth. Szeth frowned. And then it began to make sense. He knew what would happen next, even as the king reached into his voluminous sleeve and withdrew a small rock that glittered in the light of two dozen lamps. You were always him, Szeth said. My unseen master. The king set the rock on the ground between them. Szeths Oathstone. You put your own name on the list, Szeth said. In case you were captured, Taravangian said. The best defense against suspicion is to be grouped with the victims. And if Id killed you? The instructions were explicit, Taravangian said. And, as we have determined, you are quite good at following them. I probably neednt say it, but I order you not to harm me. Now, did you kill my guards? I do not know, Szeth said, forcing himself to drop to one knee and dismissing his Blade. He spoke loudly, trying to drown out the screams that he thoughtfor certainmust be coming from the upper eaves of the room. I knocked them both unconscious. I believe I cracked one mans skull. Taravangian breathed out, sighing. He rose, stepping to the doorway. Szeth glanced over his shoulder to note the aged king inspecting the guards and seeing to their wounds. Taravangian called for help, and other guards arrived to see to the men. Szeth was left with a terrible storm of emotions. This kindly, contemplative man had sent him to kill and murder? He had caused the screams? Taravangian returned. Why? Szeth asked, voice hoarse. Vengeance? No. Taravangian sounded very tired. Some of those men you killed were my dear friends, Szeth-son-son-Vallano. More insurance? Szeth spat. To keep yourself from suspicion? In part. And in part because their deaths were necessary. Why? Szeth asked. What could it possibly have served? Stability. Those you killed were among the most powerful and influential