would he be wasted as a bridgeman? Of course, there was that shash brand on his forehead. I dont see a problem, Gaz said with a grunt. Theyre fast. Thats good. Theyre insubordinate. They follow orders.  His orders, perhaps. Lamaril shook his head. Bridgemen exist for one purpose, Gaz. To protect the lives of more valuable men. Really? And here I thought their purpose was to carry bridges. Lamaril gave him a sharp look. He leaned forward. Dont try me, Gaz. And dont forget your place. Would you like to join them? Gaz felt a spike of fear. Lamaril was a very lowly lighteyes, one of the landless. But he was Gazs immediate superior, a liaison between bridge crews and the higher-ranked lighteyes who oversaw the lumberyard. Gaz looked down at the ground. Im sorry, Brightlord. Highprince Sadeas holds an edge, Lamaril said, leaning back against his post. He maintains it by pushing us all. Hard. Each man in his place. He nodded toward the members of Bridge Four. Speed is not a bad thing. Initiative is not a bad thing. But men with initiative like that boys are not often happy in their position. The bridge crews function as they are, without need for modification. Change can be unsettling. Gaz doubted that any of the bridgemen really understood their place in Sadeass plans. If they knew why they were worked as pitilessly as they were and why they were forbidden shields or armorthey likely would just cast themselves into the chasm. Bait. They were bait. Draw the Parshendi attention, let the savages think they were doing some good by felling a few bridges worth of bridgemen every assault. So long as you took plenty of men, that didnt matter. Except to those who were slaughtered. Stormfather , Gaz thought, I hate myself for being a part of this. But hed hated himself for a long time now. It wasnt anything new to him. Ill do something, he promised Lamaril. A knife in the night. Poison in the food. That twisted his insides. The boys bribes were small, but they were all that let him keep ahead of his payments to Lamaril. No! Lamaril hissed. You want it seen that he was really a threat? The real soldiers are already talking about him. Lamaril grimaced. The last thing we need is a martyr inspiring rebellion among the bridgemen. I dont want any hint of it; nothing our highprinces enemies could take advantage of. Lamaril glanced at Kaladin, jogging past again with his men. That one has to fall on the field, as he deserves. Make certain it happens. And get me the rest of the money you owe, or youll soon find yourself carrying one of those bridges yourself.