Only the very most skilled went there anyway. Others would simply slumber until the Tranquiline Halls were reclaimed. So do I believe again now? He climbed over a boulder wedged in the chasm. Just like that? He wasnt sure. But it didnt matter. He would do the best he could for his bridgemen. If there was a Calling in that, so be it. Of course, if he did escape with his team, Sadeas would replace them with others who would die in their stead. I have to worry about what I can do, he told himself. Those other bridgemen arent my responsibility. Teft talked about the Radiants, about ideals and stories. Why couldnt men actually be like that? Why did they have to rely on dreams and fabrications for inspiration? If you flee you leave all the other bridgemen to be slaughtered, a voice whispered within him. There has to be something you can do for them. No! he fought back. If I worry about that, I wont be able to save Bridge Four. If I find a way out, were going. If you leave, the voice seemed to say, then who will fight for them? Nobody cares. Nobody. What was it his father had said all those years ago? He did what he felt was right because someone had to start. Someone had to take the first step. Kaladins hand felt warm. He stopped in the chasm, closing his eyes. You couldnt feel any heat from a sphere, usually, but the one in his hand seemed warm. And thenfeeling completely natural about itKaladin breathed in deeply. The sphere grew cold and a wave of heat shot up his arm. He opened his eyes. The sphere in his hand was dun and his fingers were crispy with frost. Light rose from him like smoke from a fire, white, pure. He raised a hand and felt alive with energy. He had no need to breathe in fact, he held the breath in, trapping the Stormlight. Syl zipped back down the corridor toward him. She twisted around him, then came to rest in the air, taking the form of a woman. You did it. What happened? Kaladin shook his head, holding his breath. Something was surging within him, like Like a storm. Raging inside his veins, a tempest sweeping about inside his chest cavity. It made him want to run, jump, yell. It almost made him want to burst. He felt as if he could walk on air. Or walls. Yes! he thought. He broke into a run, leaping at the side of the chasm. He hit feetfirst. Then bounced off and slammed back into the ground. He was so stunned that he cried out, and he felt the storm within dampen as breath escaped.