he stamped them. Odd, that none of his clerks were there. Those clerks read him the documents. And then left the room. Because they were ordered to leave by Brightlord Wistiow. They have admitted this, I believe. Roshone shrugged. I dont need to prove that you stole the spheres, surgeon. I simply have to continue doing as I have been. I know that your family eats scraps. How long will you continue to make them suffer for your pride? They wont be intimidated. And neither will I. Im not asking if youre intimidated. Im asking if youre starving . Not by any means, Lirin said, voice growing dry. If we lack for something to eat, we can feast upon the attention you lavish upon us, Brightlord . We feel your eyes watching, hear your whispers to the townspeople. Judging from the degree of your concern with us, it would seem that you are the one who is intimidated. Roshone fell still, skewer held limply in his hand, brilliant green eyes narrowed, lips pursed tight. In the dark, those eyes almost seemed to glow . Kal had to stop himself from cringing under the weight of that disapproving gaze. There was an air of command about lighteyes like Roshone. Hes not a real lighteyes! Hes a reject. Ill see real ones eventually. Men of honor. Lirin held the gaze evenly. Every month we resist is a blow to your authority. You cant have me arrested, since I would win an inquest. Youve tried to turn the other people against me, but they knowdeep downthat they need me. Roshone leaned forward. I do not like your little town. Lirin frowned at the odd response. I do not like being treated like an exile , Roshone continued. I do not like living so far from anythingeverythingimportant. And most of all, I do not like darkeyes who think themselves above their stations. I have trouble feeling sympathy for you. Roshone sneered. He looked down at his meal, as if it had lost any flavor. Very well. Let us make anaccommodation. I will take nine-tenths of the spheres. You can have the rest. Kal stood up indignantly. My father will never Kal, Lirin cut in. I can speak for myself. Surely you wont make a deal, though. Lirin didnt reply immediately. Finally, he said, Go to the kitchens, Kal. Ask them if they have some food more to your tastes.