The princess floated face-up in the pool, black hair fanning out behind her in the water, her eyes closed. Her daily bath was the one time she seemed to relax completely. She looked much younger now, stripped of both clothing and intensity, floating like a child resting after a day of active swimming. Thirty-four years old. That seemed ancient in some regardssome women Jasnahs age had children as old as Shallan. And yet it was also young. Young enough that Jasnah was praised for her beauty, young enough that men declared it a shame she wasnt yet married. Shallan glanced at the pile of clothing. She carried the broken fabrial in her safepouch. She could swap them here and now. It was the opportunity shed been waiting for. Jasnah now trusted her enough to relax, soaking in the bathing chamber without worrying about her fabrial. Could Shallan really do it? Could she betray this woman who had taken her in? Considering what Ive done before, she thought, this is nothing. It wouldnt be the first time she betrayed someone who trusted her. She stood up. To the side, Jasnah cracked an eye. Blast, Shallan thought, tucking the book under her arm, pacing, trying to look thoughtful. Jasnah watched her. Not suspiciously. Curiously. Why did your father want to make a treaty with the Parshendi? Shallan found herself asking as she walked. Why wouldnt he want to? Thats not an answer. Of course it is. Its just not one that tells you anything. It would help, Brightness, if you would give me a useful answer. Then ask a useful question. Shallan set her jaw. What did the Parshendi have that King Gavilar wanted? Jasnah smiled, closing her eyes again. Closer. But you can probably guess the answer to that. Shards. Jasnah nodded, still relaxed in the water. The text doesnt mention them, Shallan said. My father didnt speak of them, Jasnah said. But from things he said well, I now suspect that they motivated the treaty. Can you be sure he knew, though? Maybe he just wanted the gemhearts. Perhaps, Jasnah said. The Parshendi seemed amused at our interest in the gemstones woven into their beards. She smiled. You should have seen our shock when we discovered where theyd gotten them. When the lanceryn died