Shallan; it seemed the output of a thousand fires, and smelled of burned wood. Shallan hastily raised the wet rag to her face, dropping to her knees. Oddly, her ears felt stopped up, as if shed climbed down from a great height. She had to swallow to pop them. She shut her eyes tightly as they began to water, and she held her breath. Her ears filled with a rushing sound. It passed. She blinked open her eyes to find the king and his bodyguard huddled against the wall beside to her. Smoke still pooled at the ceiling; the hallway smelled strongly of it. Jasnah stood, eyes still closed, oblivious of the smokethough grime now dusted her face and clothing. It had left marks on the walls too. Shallan had read of this, but she was still in awe. Jasnah had transformed the boulder into smoke, and since smoke was far less dense than stone, the change had pushed the smoke away in an explosive outburst. It was true; Jasnah really did have a functioning Soulcaster. And a powerful one too. Nine out of ten Soulcasters were capable of a few limited transformations: creating water or grain from stone; forming bland, single- roomed rock buildings out of air or cloth. A greater one, like Jasnahs, could effectuate any transformation. Literally turn any substance into any other one. How it must grate on the ardents that such a powerful, holy relic was in the hands of someone outside the ardentia. And a heretic no less! Shallan stumbled to her feet, leaving the cloth at her mouth, breathing humid but dust-free air. She swallowed, her ears popping again as the halls pressure returned to normal. A moment later, the king rushed into the now-accessible room. A small girlalong with several nursemaids and other palace servants sat on the other side, coughing. The king pulled the girl into his arms. She was too young to have a modesty sleeve. Jasnah opened her eyes, blinking, as if momentarily confused by her location. She took a deep breath, and didnt cough. Indeed, she actually smiled , as if enjoying the scent of the smoke. Jasnah turned to Shallan, focusing on her. You are still waiting for a response. Im afraid you will not like what I say. But you havent finished your testing of me yet, Shallan said, forcing herself to be bold. Surely you wont give judgment until you have. I havent finished? Jasnah asked, frowning. You didnt ask me about all of the feminine arts. You left out painting and drawing. I have never had much use for them. But they are of the arts, Shallan said, feeling desperate. This was where