retreating . And so youd have me think this an act of honor? Dalinar growled. Not at all, Sadeas said, chuckling. I have struggled for years to become Elhokars most trusted advisorbut there was always you, distracting him, holding his ear despite my every eff ort. I wont pretend this was only about honor, though there was an element of that to it. In the end, I just wanted you gone. Sadeass voice grew cold. But you are going insane, old friend. You may name me a liar, but I did what I did today as a mercy. A way of letting you die in glory, rather than watching you descend further and further. By letting the Parshendi kill you, I could protect Elhokar from you and turn you into a symbol to remind the others what were really doing here. Your death might have become what finally united us. Ironic, if you consider it. Dalinar breathed in and out. It was hard not to let his anger, his indignation, consume him. Then tell me one thing. Why not pin the assassination attempt on me? Why clear me, if you were only looking to betray me later on? Sadeas snorted softly. Bah. Nobody would really believe that you tried to kill the king. Theyd gossip, but they wouldnt believe it. Blaming you too quickly would have risked implicating myself. He shook his head. I think Elhokar knows who tried to kill him. Hes admitted as much to me, though he wont give me the name. What? Dalinar thought. He knows? But how? Why not tell us who? Dalinar adjusted his plans. He wasnt certain if Sadeas was telling the truth, but if he was, he could use this. He knows it wasnt you, Sadeas continued. I can read that much in him, though he doesnt realize how transparent he is. Blaming you would have been pointless. Elhokar would have defended you, and I might very well have lost the position of Highprince of Information. But it did give me a wonderful opportunity to make you trust me again. Unite them. The visions. But the man who spoke to Dalinar in them had been dead wrong. Acting with honor hadnt won Sadeass loyalty. It had just opened Dalinar up to betrayal. If it means anything, Sadeas said idly, Im fond of you. I really am. But you are a boulder in my path, and a force workingagainst its own knowledge  to destroy Gavilars kingdom. When the chance came along, I took it. It wasnt simply a convenient opportunity, Dalinar said. You set this up, Sadeas. I planned, but Im often planning. I dont always act on my options. Today I did.