Im disappointed in you. This is not proper behavior. It is if youre a sailor, young miss. He shrugged. Its what they right expected from me. Watched me like handlers of poisonous skyeels, they did. The game wasnt about the cardsit was about them trying to figure how I was cheating and me trying to figure how to keep them from hauling me off. I think I might not have managed to walk away with my skin if you hadnt arrived! That didnt seem to worry him much. The roadway down to the docks was not nearly as busy as it had been earlier, but there were still a surprisingly large number of people about. The street was lit by oil lanternsspheres would just have ended up in someones pouchbut many of the people about carried sphere lanterns, casting a rainbow of colored light on the roadway. The people were almost like spren, each a different hue, moving this way or that. So, young miss, Yalb said, leading her carefully through the traffic. You really want to go back? I just said what I did so I could extract myself from that game there. Yes, I do want to go back, please. And your princess? Shallan grimaced. The meeting wasunproductive. She didnt take you? Whats wrong with her? Chronic competence, I should guess. Shes been so successful in life that she has unrealistic expectations of others. Yalb frowned, guiding Shallan around a group of revelers stumbling drunkenly up the roadway. Wasnt it a little early for that sort of thing? Yalb got a few steps ahead, turning and walking backward, looking at her. That doesnt make sense, young miss. What more could she want than you? Much more, apparently. But youre perfect! Pardon my forwardness. Youre walking backward. Pardon my backwardness, then. You look good from any side, young miss, that you do. She found herself smiling. Tozbeks sailors had far too high an opinion of her. Youd make an ideal ward, he continued. Genteel, pretty, refined and such. Dont much like your opinion on gambling, but thats to be expected. Wouldnt be right for a proper woman not to scold a fellow for gambling. Itd be like the sun refusing to rise or the sea turning white. Or Jasnah Kholin smiling. Exactly! Anyway, youre perfect.