He began to whistle softly to himself, inspecting his tattoos and ignoring those observant enough to gawk. I remember writing something somewhere he thought, looking over his wrist, then twisting his arm over and trying to see if there were any new tattoos on the back. Like all Aimians, he could change the color and markings of his skin at will. That was convenient, as when you were very regularly robbed of everything you owned, it was blighted difficult to keep a proper notebook. And so, he kept his notes on his skin, at least until he could return to a safe location and transcribe them. Hopefully, he hadnt gotten so drunk that hed written his observations someplace inconvenient. Hed done that once, and reading the mess had required two mirrors and a very confused bathing attendant. Ah, he thought, discovering a new entry near the inside of his left elbow. He read it awkwardly, shuffling down the incline. Test successful. Have noted spren who appear only when one is severely intoxicated. Appear as small brown bubbles clinging to objects nearby. Further testing may be needed to prove they were more than a drunken hallucination. Very nice, he said out loud. Very nice indeed. I wonder what I should call them. The stories hed heard called them sudspren, but that seemed silly. Intoxicationspren? No, too unwieldy. Alespren? He felt a surge of excitement. Hed been hunting this particular type of spren for years. If they proved real, it would be quite a victory. Why did they appear only in Iri? And why so infrequently? Hed gotten himself stupidly drunk a dozen times, and had only found them once. If, indeed, he had ever really found them. Spren, however, could be very elusive. Sometimes, even the most common typesflamespren, for instancewould refuse to appear. That made it particularly frustrating for a man who had made it his lifes work to observe, catalogue, and study every single type of spren in Roshar. He continued whistling as he made his way through the town to the dockside. Around him flowed large numbers of the golden-haired Iriali. The hair bred true, like black Alethi hairthe purer your blood was, the more locks of gold you had. And it wasnt merely blond, it was truly gold, lustrous in the sun. He had a fondness for the Iriali. They werent nearly as prudish as the Vorin peoples to the east, and were rarely inclined to bickering or fighting. That made it easier to hunt spren. Of course, there were also spren you could find only during war. A group of people had gathered at the docks. Ah, he thought, excellent. Im not too late. Most were crowding onto a purpose-built viewing platform. Axies found himself a place to stand, adjusted his holy blanket, and leaned back