small pedestals on which a man can stand and proclaim his arguments. It is said that everyone in Marabethia carries a pouch with an overripe fruit just in case they pass a proclaimer with whom they disagree. Kaladin frowned. He hadnt heard so many words from Sigzil in all the time theyd been bridgemen together. What you said earlier, on the plateau, Sigzil continued, eyes forward, it made me think of the Marabethians. You see, they have a curious way of treating condemned criminals. They dangle them over the seaside cliff near the city, down near the water at high tide, with a cut sliced in each cheek. There is a particular species of greatshell in the depths there. The creatures are known for their succulent flavor, and of course they have gemhearts. Not nearly as large as the ones in these chasmfiends, but still nice. So the criminals, they become bait. A criminal may demand execution instead, but they say if you hang there for a week and are not eaten, then you can go free. And does that often happen? Kaladin asked. Sigzil shook his head. Never. But the prisoners almost always take the chance. The Marabethians have a saying for someone who refuses to see the truth of a situation. You have eyes of red and blue, they say. Red for the blood dripping. Blue for the water. It is said that these two things are all the prisoners see. Usually they are attacked within one day. And yet, most still wish to take that chance. They prefer the false hope. Eyes of red and blue, Kaladin thought, imagining the morbid picture. You do a good work, Sigzil said, rising, picking up his bowl. At first, I hated you for lying to the men. But I have come to see that a false hope makes them happy. What you do is like giving medicine to a sick man to ease his pain until he dies. Now these men can spend their last days in laughter. You are a healer indeed, Kaladin Stormblessed. Kaladin wanted to object, to say that it wasnt a false hope, but he couldnt. Not with his heart in his stomach. Not with what he knew. A moment later, Rock burst from the barrack. I feel like a true aliltikii again! he proclaimed, holding aloft his razor. My friends, you cannot know what you have done! Someday, I will take you to the Peaks and show you the hospitality of kings! Despite all of his complaining, he hadnt shaved his beard off completely. He had left long, red-blond sideburns, which curved down to his chin. The tip of the chin itself was shaved clean, as were his lips. On the tall, oval-faced man, the look was quite distinctive. Ha! Rock said, striding up to the fire. He grabbed the nearest men there and hugged them both to him, causing Bisig to nearly spill his stew. I will make you all family for this. A peak dwellers humakaaban is