comply. He breathed in and out in deep gasps, coughing. A passing soldier peeked in, but when he saw the bridgemans outfit, he left without a word. Eventually, Kaladin felt a light touch on his chest. He opened his eyes and found Syl lying prone in the air, face toward his. Her feet were toward the wall, but her postureindeed, the way her dress hungmade it seem as if she were standing upright, not face toward the ground. Kaladin, she said, I have something to tell you. He closed his eyes again. Kaladin, this is important! He felt a slight jolt of energy on his eyelid. It was a very strange sensation. He grumbled, opening his eyes and forcing himself to sit. She walked in the air, as if circumnavigating an invisible sphere, until she was standing up in the right direction. I have decided, Syl declared, that Im glad you kept your word to Gaz, even if he is a disgusting person. It took Kaladin a moment to realize what she was talking about. The spheres? She nodded. I thought you might break your word, but Im glad you didnt. All right. Well, thank you for telling me, I guess. Kaladin, she said petulantly, making fists at her side. This is important . I He trailed off, then rested his head back against the wall. Syl, I can barely breathe, let alone think. Please. Just tell me whats bothering you. I know what a lie is, she said, moving over and sitting on his knee. A few weeks ago, I didnt even understand the concept of lying. But now Im happy that you didnt lie. Dont you see? No. Im changing. She shiveredit must have been an intentional action, for her entire figure fuzzed for a moment. I know things I didnt just a few days ago. It feels so strange. Well, I guess thats a good thing. I mean, the more you understand, the better. Right? She looked down. When I found you near the chasm after the highstorm yesterday, she whispered, you were going to kill yourself, werent you? Kaladin didnt respond. Yesterday. That was an eternity ago. I gave you a leaf, she said. A poisonous leaf. You could have used it to kill yourself or someone else. Thats what you were probably planning to use it for in the first place, back in the wagons. She looked back up into his eyes, and her tiny voice seemed terrified. Today, I know what death is. Why do I know what death is, Kaladin?