relationship worked; I would discover people Gavilar should know, then bring them to him. I didnt realize until too late what I had done in giving you to him. Giving me? Is there a slaves brand on my forehead of which Ive been unaware? I did not mean Oh hush, Navani said, her voice suddenly fond. Dalinar stifled a sigh; though Navani had matured since their youth, her moods always had changed as quickly as the seasons. In truth, that was part of her allure. Did you often step aside for him? Navani asked. Always. Didnt that grow tiresome? I didnt think about it much, Dalinar said. When I did yes, I was frustrated. But it was Gavilar. You know how he was. That force of will, that air of natural entitlement. It always seemed to surprise him when someone denied him or when the world itself didnt do as he wished. He didnt force me to defer it was simply how life was. Navani nodded in understanding. Regardless, Dalinar said, I apologize for confusing you. I well, I had difficulty letting go. I fear thaton occasionI let too much of my true feelings slip out. Well, I suppose I can forgive that, she said. Though you did spend the next two de cades making certain I thought you hated me. I did nothing of the sort! Oh? And how else was I to interpret your coldness? The way you would often leave the room when I arrived? Containing myself, Dalinar said. I had made my decision. Well, it looked a lot like hatred, Navani said. Though I did wonder several times what you were hiding behind those stony eyes of yours. Of course, then Shshshsh came along. As always, when the name of his wife was spoken, it came to him as the sound of softly rushing air, then slipped from his mind immediately. He could not hear, or remember, the name. She changed everything, Navani said. You truly seemed to love her. I did, Dalinar said. Surely he had loved her. Hadnt he? He could remember nothing. What was she like? He quickly added, I mean, in your opinion. How did you see her? Everyone loved Shshshsh , Navani said. I tried hard to hate her, but in the end, I could only be mildly jealous. You? Jealous of her? Whatever for?