center of camp. The slaves behind Kaladin looked around anxiously. Stormfather! Gaz cursed. Bridgemen! Up, up, you louts! He began kicking at some of the men who were eating. They scattered their bowls, scrambling to their feet. They wore simple sandals instead of proper boots. You, Lordship, Gaz said, pointing at Kaladin. I didnt say I dont care what in Damnation you said! Youre in Bridge Four. He pointed at a group of departing bridgemen. The rest of you, go wait over there. Ill divide you up later. Get moving, or Ill see you strung up by your heels. Kaladin shrugged and jogged after the group of bridgemen. It was one of many teams of such men pouring out of barracks or picking themselves up out of alleys. There seemed to be quite a lot of them. Around fifty barracks, with perhapstwenty or thirty men in eachthat would make nearly as many bridgemen in this army as there had been soldiers in Amarams entire force. Kaladins team crossed the grounds, weaving between boards and piles of sawdust, approaching a large wooden contraption. It had obviously weathered a few highstorms and some battles. The dents and holes scattered along its length looked like places where arrows had struck. The bridge in bridgeman, perhaps? Yes, Kaladin thought. It was a wooden bridge, around thirty feet long, eight feet wide. It sloped down at the front and back, and had no railings. The wood was thick, with the largest boards for support through the center. There were some forty or fifty bridges lined up here. Perhaps one for each barrack, making one crew for each bridge? About twenty bridge crews were gathering at this point. Gaz had found himself a wooden shield and a gleaming mace, but there were none for anyone else. He quickly inspected each team. He stopped beside Bridge Four and hesitated. Wheres your bridgeleader? he demanded. Dead, one of the bridgemen said. Tossed himself down the Honor Chasm last night. Gaz cursed. Cant you keep a bridgeleader for even a week? Storm it! Line up; Ill run near you. Listen for my commands. Well sort out another bridgeleader after we see who survives. Gaz pointed at Kaladin. Youre at the back, lordling. The rest of you, get moving! Storm you, I wont suffer another reprimand because of you fools! Move, move! The others were lifting. Kaladin had no choice but to go to the open slot at the tail of the bridge. Hed been a little low in his assessment; looked like about thirty-five to forty men per bridge. There was room for five men acrossthree under the bridge and one on each sideand eight deep, though this crew didnt have a man for each position.