Nothing. It was just an ordinary fire. But, I saw What you saw belongs to you. A story doesnt live until it is imagined in someones mind. What does the story mean, then? It means what you want it to mean, Hoid said. The purpose of a storyteller is not to tell you how to think, but to give you questions to think upon. Too often, we forget that. Kaladin frowned, looking westward, back toward the warcamps. They were alight now with spheres, lanterns, and candles. It means taking responsibility, Kaladin said. The Uvara, they were happy to kill and murder, so long as they could blame the emperor. It wasnt until they realized there was nobody to take the responsibility that they showed grief. Thats one interpretation, Hoid said. A fine one, actually. So what is it you dont want to take responsibility for? Kaladin started. What? People see in stories what theyre looking for, my young friend. He reached behind his boulder, pulling out a pack and slinging it on his shoulder. I have no answers for you. Most days, I feel I never have had any answers. Ive come to your land to chase an old acquaintance, but I end up spending most of my time hiding from him instead. You said about me and responsibility Just an idle comment, nothing more. He reached over, laying a hand on Kaladins shoulder. My comments are often idle. I never can get them to do any solid work. Would that I could make my words carry stones. That would be something to see. He held out the dark wood flute. Here. Ive carried her for longer than youd believe, were I to tell you the truth. Take her for yourself. But I dont know how to play it! Then learn, Hoid said, pressing the flute into Kaladins hand. When you can make the music sing back at you, then youve mastered it. He began to walk away. And take good care of that blasted apprentice of mine. He really should have let me know he was still alive. Perhaps he feared Id come to rescue him again. Apprentice? Tell him I graduate him, Hoid said, still walking. Hes a full Worldsinger now. Dont let him get killed. I spent far too long trying to force some sense into that brain of his. Sigzil, Kaladin thought. Ill give him the flute, he called after Hoid. No you wont, Hoid said, turning, walking backward as he left. Its a gift