that arm of yours. Its not that bad. Kaladin grabbed his arm anyway, peeling away the blood-crusted bandage. The cut was long, but shallow. We need antiseptic on this, Kaladin said, noting a few red rotspren crawling around on the wound. I should probably sew it up. Its not that bad! Still, Kaladin said, waving for Teft to follow as he approached one of the rain barrels alongside the lumberyard. The wound was shallow enough that Teft would probably be able to show the others spear thrusts and blocks tomorrow during chasm duty, but that was no excuse for leaving it alone to fester or scar. At the rain barrel, Kaladin washed out the wound, then called for Lopen who was standing in the shade beside the barrackto bring his medical equipment. The Herdazian man gave that salute again, though he did it with one arm, and sauntered away to get the pack. So, lad, Teft said. How do you feel? Any odd experiences lately? Kaladin frowned, looking up from the arm. Storm it, Teft! Thats the fifth time in two days youve asked me that. What are you getting at? Nothing, nothing! It is something, Kaladin said. What is it youre digging for, Teft? I Gancho, Lopen said, walking up, carrying the medical supply pack over his shoulder. Here you go. Kaladin glanced at him, then reluctantly accepted the pack. He pulled the drawstrings open. Well want to A quick motion came from Teft. Like a punch being thrown. Kaladin moved by reflex, taking in a sharp breath, moving to a defensive stance, arms up, one hand a fist, the other back to block. Something blossomed within Kaladin. Like a deep breath drawn in, like a burning liquor injected directly into his blood. A powerful wave pulsed through his body. Energy, strength, awareness. It was like the bodys natural alert response to danger, only it was a hundredfold more intense. Kaladin caught Tefts fist, moving blurringly quick. Teft froze. What are you doing? Kaladin demanded. Teft was smiling. He stepped back, pulling his fist free. Kelek, he said, shaking his hand. Thats some grip youve got. Why did you try to strike me? I wanted to see something, Teft said. Youre holding that pouch of spheres Lopen gave you, you see, and your own pouch with what weve gathered lately. More Stormlight than youve probably ever carried, at least